Greek government under fire over 'anachronistic' upgrade of  church schools
ATHENS, Sept 22
The Greek conservative government came  under concerted fire on Thursday over a planned law which accords  university status to Orthodox seminary schools, a move which the  press condemned as "anachronistic" and "theocratic."
The new bill by the ministry of education, which has political  responsibility over affairs of religion in Greece, elevates the four  male-only church academies that train Orthodox priests to university  status, raising the prospect of higher salaries for clergy  graduates.
"There is no need for such universities," the authoritative,  pro-government Kathimerini daily commented in an editorial,  labelling the whole initiative "an anachronistic paradox" at a time  when Greece's other state universities are perenially short of  cash.
"Ayatollah universities", read the derisive headline of  centre-left Eleftherotypia daily, a frequent critic of the church.
The planned law also brewed a storm of protest from the  opposition parties of the left and centre, who accused the ruling  conservatives of making concessions to the Greek Orthodox Church, an  influential power in a country where around 98 percent of the  population are avowed Orthodox believers.
Theologians also bristled at the perceived threat to their  influence, with the rector of Athens University's theology  department, Father Metallinos, arguing that the reform "is directed  against free theological thought."
Maverick writer Nikos Dimou went a step further, telling Flash  Radio that the planned bill shows that Greece is becoming "a country  of mullahs".
The education ministry on Thursday countered that an upgrade of  the church schools had been "necessary", as it aims to raise the  education level of Greek priests.
"We all know the complaints that surface at times (on this  point)," Education Minister Marietta Giannakou told reporters on  Wednesday.
The academies will remain under ministry control, she added.
Nikolaos Gasparakis, the spokesman of the Catholic Church in  Greece, observed that Orthodox priests with degrees will probably  cost more to the Greek state which pays their salaries.
The ultimate cost of the upgrade on the state budget, involving  an expanded curriculum and additional staff salaries, will be up to  3.5 million euros (4.3 million dollars) over several years, the  education ministry said.