Jiang visit to Dresden marred by protests
ATTENTION
RECASTS with protests ///
DRESDEN, Germany, April 11 (AFP) - A visit by Chinese President Jiang Zemin to the eastern German city of Dresden Thursday was marred by small civil rights protests, police said.
After Jiang took a tour of the Zwinger museum complex, a reconstructed baroque palace, a woman emerged from a group of about 50 cheering and flagwaving Chinese students to shout "Falungong" ,the name of a spiritual movement banned in China.
Police cleared the woman from the site and kept television cameras from filming the scene, according to news agency DPA.
Later, a small group of activists from the German Tibet Initiative held a silent vigil against human rights violations in China, in front of the Dresden Cultural Palace.
A short distance away, about 50 Falungong supporters gathered to meditate.
A Falungong spokesman called the woman's protests "a personal expression of opinion".
About 100 Falungong members gathered to demonstrate against what they said was Chinese repression while Jiang, who is on a six-day state visit, spent the afternoon in the eastern city of Potsdam.
Dressed in yellow jumpsuits and carrying banners reading: "Stop Jiang Zemin's Execution Orders" and "More Than 100 Dead", the group was kept far from the visiting president by a strong police deployment.
Thursday's demonstration followed two days of small protests by the group in Berlin.
Jiang has largely been shielded from the public and the press during his stay. German President Johannes Rau and Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder broached the subject of civil rights violations in China during closed door meetings but have refrained from publicly criticizing their guest.
Jiang and his host in Dresden, Saxony state premier Kurt Biedenkopf, were to visit the renowed porcelain manufacturer Meissen Thursday afternoon before they held a brief meeting and attended an evening cultural program.
Dresden was largely destroyed by Allied bombing during World War II but its old town has been restored to the regal splendor it enjoyed under the Saxon kings.
Germany is Jiang's only destination in Europe. After leaving the country Saturday, he will continue on to Libya, Nigeria, Tunisia and Iran.