Corsican separatists spurn French interior minister's offer of dialogue by Marc Burleigh
PARIS, Oct 29 (AFP)
Separatists on Corsica and the French government stepped up their struggle to control the Mediterranean island's future Wednesday, on the eve of another visit by Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy aimed at stamping out the three-decades-long insurgency.
Sarkozy, in an interview with Le Monde newspaper ahead of the Thursday trip, said he would continue his crackdown on those perpertrating daily bomb attacks against police stations and other buildings symbolising Paris's rule as well as what he called the "mafia-like system" of financing the attacks.
He also held out the "need for political dialogue, including with sincere nationalists".
But the various parties and groups calling for self-rule for the island have rejected the carrot-and-stick approach and organised a peaceful protest late Wednesday in front of the police station in the main city of Ajaccio to denounce Sarkozy's "repressive" policies.
Attacks and vandalism have also increased, both on the island and on the French mainland.
On Sunday night, a bomb was found in front of a police station in southern Corsica. The day before, a defused rocket was fired at police barracks in Ajaccio in a symbolic threat. A plaque commemorating two officers killed in the town of Aleria in 1975 was also destroyed.
Those acts, and other recent ones against administrative buildings in Paris and the French Riviera city of Nice, have been claimed by one of the many undergound separatist militant factions, the Corsican National Liberation Front-Combattants' Union.
The number of attacks has surged since July, when a referendum sponsored by Sarkozy that offered limited autonomy in exchange for an end to the violence was narrowly defeated by Corsica's wary 260,000 inhabitants.
That was also the month French police arrested a high-profile separatist, Yvan Colonna, suspected of assassinating Corsica's governor in 1998.
Both developments enraged the separatists, who have been a thorn in the side of successive French governments seeking to tame the island, which was the birthplace of Napoleon Bonaparte.
In his interview, Sarkozy said his security forces would "give priority to going after criminal money -- the basis of the mafia-like system -- which is obtained from shake-downs, bombings and the underground economy."
A nationalist leader who heads the Indipendenza party, Charles Pieri, was squarely in his sights, Sarkozy said, after information from investigators suggesting he was one of the most powerful figures defying Paris.
The visit was to be Sarkozy's 10th to the island since he took up his functions last year. The minister has staked much of his reputation on finding a solution to the "Corsican problem".
His last trip, October 16, was to underline his determination to force the separatists back into dialogue under the threat of increasingly tough security measures.
His most notable act that time was to unveil a new plaque commemorating the spot in Ajaccio where the governor, Claude Erignac, was gunned down in 1998. The old plaque had been torn out of the wall in August.
"What matters is that each one of us realises that nothing, nowhere, ever justifies this .... This terrible past has shown us that violence is an impasse in which Corsica will lose its soul and fritter away the energy it needs so badly," Sarkozy said at the time.
