Protesting Malian immigrants force delay to flight from Paris: rights group
PARIS, April 18 (AFP)
A flight from Paris to the Malian capital of Bamako was delayed for 13 hours after a number of illegal immigrants from Mali protested their deportation from France by shouting and crying, passengers on board and a rights group said Friday.
Three of the 160 passengers on board the Air Mediterranee flight were taken into custody by police at Roissy-Charles de Gaulle airport for "hindering air traffic", said the secretary general of the rights group Droits Devant (Rights First), Annie Pourre.
One of those held was a leader of the left-wing farmers union Confederation Paysanne, Patrick Hermann, according to his brother, Dominique Hermann.
Police at the airport refused to answer questions on the incident.
Flight BIE961 had been scheduled to leave Paris for Bamako, capital of the west African state of Mali, at 12:10 pm (1010 GMT) Thursday. It finally left at 1:08 am on Friday (2308 GMT Thursday).
A French passenger, Djibril Ba said the plane was first delayed several hours due to what was described as a "technical problem". But he reported seeing several police vehicles an agitated crowd outside the plane.
Passengers were transfered to a second plane, but Malian deportees on board began "shouting, crying, arguing", said Ba and another unidentified passenger. They said however there was no violence.
He said passengers asked police accompanying the deportees to keep them quiet. "We could not have stood this for the whole trip, the noise was unbearable," said Ba, a 50-year-old engineer.
A spokesman for Droits Devant, Jean-Marc Ayraud, said the plane was "stuck on the tarmac after passengers opposed the forced embarkation of" the illegal immigrants.
Previous flights to deport illegal immigrants from France have led to accusations of police violence, and protests from human rights and immigrant defence groups.
In January this year a 24-year-old Somali who was being deported on a scheduled flight to South Africa died after an alleged struggle with police accompanying him.