Spanish director cancels own play after threats ATTENTION - CONTAINS STRONG LANGUAGE ///
MADRID, Sept 8, 2006
A controversial Spanish actor and  director has cancelled a Madrid production of one of his own plays  after receiving threats from extreme right-wing groups, local media  reported on Friday.
Pepe Rubianes told El Pais newspaper that he had decided to  cancel performances between September 19 and 24 of "They were all  Lorca" -- a piece about the Spanish poet Federico Garcia Lorca and  other victims of Spain's totalitarian leader Francisco Franco --  because he no longer felt free to work as he wished.
"I refuse to go to work under escort and with armoured police  vehicles at the door. You work in the theatre for pleasure," he  said, adding that he had received repeated and serious threats.
The director angered many on the extreme right of Spanish  politics when he made outspoken comments about the unity of the  Spanish state in January, as the country was engaged in a heated  debate about the future of the northeastern region of Catalonia.
Speaking on Catalan television about right wing commentators who  said plans put forward by the Socialist government to give Catalonia  more autonomy risked breaking up the unified Spanish state, Rubianes  fumed: "Spanish unity just gets on my tits... fucking Spain can fuck  off."
His comments caused outrage and the director subsequently tried  to qualify his remarks by saying he had only been talking about  "retrograde, reactionary and fascist" Spain. But this effort to  assuage his critics proved unsuccessful.
The ultra-conservative grouping Alternativa Espanola called for  a demonstration outside Madrid's Spanish Theatre on the opening  night of Rubianes' play.
The group also demonstrated in February in front of another  Madrid theatre that was hosting performances of "Revelation", a  biting satire about the Roman Catholic religion directed by and  starring the comedian Leo Bassi.
A few days later, a unknown person lit an incendiary device  inside the theatre during a performance of Bassi's play. No one was  injured in that incident.