Far-right calls anti-government demonstration in Hungary by Michael Adler
BUDAPEST, Sept 22, 2006
A far-right Hungarian group  called for an anti-government demonstration in Budapest Friday, a  day after the main opposition party postponed a major rally to press  the prime minister to resign.
Observers suggested the MIEP party, which has no representation  in parliament, was seeking to boost its flagging popularity by  assuming a leading role in the unrest that has rocked the Hungarian  capital in recent days.
Police spokesman Laszlo Garamvolgyi said "a strong force" would  be deployed to prevent the demonstration turning violent following  several nights of rioting that saw protestors storm the state  television headquarters on Monday.
"We don't expect violence at this afternoon's protests, but we  are ready for everything now and there won't be a repeat of the  events at the MTV television station," Garamvolgyi said.
The recent violence in Budapest was triggered by a public radio  broadcast last Sunday of a recording of Prime Minister Ferenc  Gyurcsany telling deputies from his socialist party that he had lied  to the country about the dire state of the economy in order to win  re-election in April.
The main opposition Fidesz party has called on Gyurcsany to  resign, but cancelled a planned weekend rally to push its demand,  amid apparent fears that a public backlash against this week's riots  might cost it electoral support.
Krisztian Szabados, an analyst at the Political Capital think  tank in Budapest, said the MIEP had called its protest in a bid to  win over radical Fidesz members unhappy at the cancellation of their  own rally.
"In the past MIEP was able to gather 100,000 protestors on the  street but this week they could not get more than 15,000. What we  see now is that MIEP is trying to gather these voters again," he  said.
But, Szabados added, people are exhausted from events over the  past week "and most will stay at home".
He said Fidesz had not expected the demonstrations over the past  week to turn violent -- a development that lost them the opportunity  to take the moral and populist high ground.
"No one knows why Fidesz lost control. At a certain point, the  organization of the demonstrations went into the hands of right-wing  extremists," he said.
Another analyst, Tibor Zavecz of the Szonda Ipsos polling  institute, said: "One thing is clear -- that the events of the past  nights have drawn voters towards the socialists."
Polls by the Media polling group showed that while 52 percent of  Hungarians felt before this week's violence that Gyurcsany should  resign for his comments, the figure dropped to 45 percent after the  storming of the television building.
Gyurcsany's popularity had slumped even before the protests  erupted, after he introduced harsh economic reforms that include tax  increases in order to rein in a skyrocketing deficit -- the highest  in the European Union at more than 10 percent of gross domestic  product.
In interviews published Friday in the foreign press, Gyurcsany  said his taped comments had been misinterpreted and argued that he  still enjoyed the support of the Hungarian people.
"The speech was a dramatic monologue, with a lot of passion,  unilateralism and exaggeration," he told France's Le Monde  newspaper. "When I speak of lies, I am talking about a general  attitude and not about specific matters.
"I believe the population is behind me and thinks that, for the  first time in 10 years, someone has dared say such things. So I will  not resign," he said.