Not neighbourly: Italy and France in bitter political row
PARIS, March 23 (AFP)
The often testy relations between Italy and France have taken a turn for the worse after a series of spats spilled over into angry finger- pointing on both sides.
French officials were tight-lipped after Italy said France was harbouring members of the Red Brigades urban guerrillas, who claimed this week's assassination of an Italian government aide.
Italian officials meanwhile were outraged after opponents of right- wing Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi disrupted the opening of the country's stand at a French book fair.
The bitter accusations come as the governments in both nations face a wave of political challenges, with Berlusconi under fire from labour unions and France in the middle of a close election race.
Italian Justice Minister Roberto Castelli said France was a haven for criminals, including members of the Red Brigades, after a government aide was gunned down in Bologna Tuesday.
"Paris is a refuge for so many criminals on the run who are wanted for serious crimes in Italy," Castelli said, accusing France of refusing to extradite former Red Brigades members.
The charge came just three days after Marco Biagi, who helped draft a proposed labour law that trade unions see as a threat, was shot dead.
The killing sparked fears that Italy could see a return to the political bloodshed of the 1970s, when left- and right-wing extremists terrorised the nation.
Labour leaders in Italy denounced the killing but vowed to press ahead with mass protests and a general strike against the proposed measure to give companies more freedom to fire workers.
France's foreign ministry regretted the incident at the Paris book fair and said Paris wanted to develop cultural relations.
The Italian delegation stormed out in protest on Friday after opponents of Berlusconi's right-wing policies interrupted the opening of the fair's Italian section on Thursday.
Italy was the guest of honour at the fair, but demonstrators shouted slogans against Berlusconi and his under-secretary of culture, Vittorio Sgarbi.
The secretary's lecture was cancelled, along with a scheduled roundtable discussion on Italian-French relations.
The Italians blamed outspoken French Culture Minister Catherine Tasca, a socialist who in January lambasted the rise to power of media tycoon Berlusconi, Italy's richest man.
"I am really alarmed by what is happening today in the world of culture and communication in Italy," she said.
Sgarbi, never one to step back from a political row, hit right back at Tasca on Friday.
"It is scandalous and inadmissible that a group of demonstrators -- who are really just fascists and Nazis -- should prevent representatives of Italy from attending their country's stand," he said.
"Tasca is responsible because it was she who first made the link between culture and politics."
Tasca's counterpart in Rome, Culture Minister Giuliano Urbani, said: "It has escaped no one that these incidents happened as a result of a series of deliberately hostile statements against the government of a friendly country and in particular directed against Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi."
With the two neighbours battling over politics and culture, a commercial angle also came into play when Italy accused the French of failing to re-open the Mont Banc tunnel, which runs  between the two countries, to heavy trucks.
The vital Alpine road link was re-opened for cars earlier this month after a deadly fire in 1999, but Rome again accused the French of going back on their agreement on the tunnel.
France late Friday proposed a "progressive and rapid" reopening of the tunnel to heavy truck traffic from Tuesday.
Italy is keen to regain full use of its single most important export route, while France has delayed allowing trucks to pass among protests in the valley leading up to the tunnel.