French emergency meeting after woman attacked by Marc Burleigh =(PICTURE)= ATTENTION - UPDATES with meeting started, ADDS details ///
PARIS, Oct 30, 2006
The French government held an  emergency meeting on boosting transport security Monday after an  arson attack on a bus that left a woman near death.
The attack, by youths in the southern port city of Marseille,  was the worst incident in an upsurge of urban violence during the  weekend coinciding with the first anniversary of the riots that  shook France last year.
Two hundred extra riot police were being deployed to Marseille  following the attack, which occurred Saturday night.
Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin called Monday's meeting  with Interior Minister Sarkozy and Transport Minister Dominique  Perben to discuss other measures to be taken there and elsewhere in  France.
According to police, nine buses were torched across the country  last week, seven of them in the Paris area, by hooded or masked  youths, some of whom were armed, though no other serious casualties  have been reported.
Scores of private and company vehicles have also been  incinerated, and overnight Sunday, youths threw a stone from a  bridge on a tram in the eastern city of Grenoble, smashing the  window and injuring the driver.
Scores of arrests were made in scattered skirmishes with police,  and several officers were slightly hurt.
The violence recalled the three weeks of riots that raged in  mostly poor French suburbs a year ago -- the worst civil strife the  country has seen in four decades.
Then, gangs of youths, most of them from families of African and  Arab origin living in marginalised neighbourhoods, torched more than  10,000 cars and firebombed 300 buildings in around 275 towns.
Although the fresh spate of arson attacks was on a much smaller  scale than the 2005 riots, there were fears that the still-tense  suburbs could explode again.
Lingering resentment in high-immigrant areas suffering chronic  youth unemployment four times the national average, coupled with  political sensitivities ahead of presidential and parliamentary  elections due next year have made the situation unpredictable.
Villepin and Sarkozy, potential rivals in the race to succeed  President Jacques Chirac, are each vying to be seen to be in charge  of the response to the new violence while presenting a united  government face.
They have both condemned the Marseille bus attack and vowed to  find the perpetrators, said to be two teenagers.
Other politicians also expressed their shock, with the leading  opposition Socialist presidential candidate, Segolene Royal,  describing the act as "urban guerilla war" while also blasting  Sarkozy for his "failure" to provide security in the suburbs.
Chirac on Sunday telephoned the family of the victim -- a  26-year-old Senegalese medical student named as Mama Galledou -- to  express his "horror at this despicable act".
Marseille bus drivers refused to return to work Sunday following  the attack, and on Monday counterparts in the French Riviera city of  Nice followed suit for several hours out of solidarity.
The hospital treating Galledou said she remained between life  and death, with burns to 70 percent of her body. She was on  artificial respiration and in an artificial coma in a burns clinic.  Her parents were due to arrive from Senegal on Monday to be by her  side.
The woman was on the bus with some 10 other passengers when it  was forcibly boarded by the two teenagers wearing hoods. They doused  the inside of the vehicle with flammable liquid and set it on fire  before running away.
Although the driver and other passengers escaped in time, the  woman was unable to do so.
A witness, identified by his first name, Rachid, told Le  Parisien newspaper he saw the woman screaming on the bus.
"Frankly, I nearly fainted seeing her... She's a black woman,  but she was white from how horribly her skin was burned," he said.