Embattled Hungarian PM confident of surviving local elections by Zoltan Simon =(PICTURE)=
BUDAPEST, Sept 30, 2006
Embattled Hungarian Prime  Minister Ferenc Gyurcsany was confident of surving local elections  on Sunday, in the face of opposition calls he step down after lying  to the country about the economy.
"I predict good results ... which will not be adequate (for the  opposition) to use as a referendum to say that (people) voted  against the government," Gyurcsany said in an interview on ATV  private television late Friday.
Riding a wave of far-right anti-government protests,  conservative opposition Fidesz leader Viktor Orban has urged voters  to make the local elections a referendum on the government and its  unpopular austerity package.
Orban has said the government had no mandate to pass tax rises  after Gyurcsany admitting in a recording leaked on September 17 that  he concealed the dire state of the economy from voters to win  re-election in April.
"We are living historic times ... and the October 1 elections  will be a watershed," Orban said on a taped address aired on  right-wing private television HirTV late Friday.
"On Sunday we will decide if we accept lies and the austerity  package," Orban said.
The leaked Gyurcsany tape triggered 13 days of anti-government  protests, which erupted into street riots early last week that left  some 250 injured in the worst unrest in Hungary since the end of  communism in 1989.
But Gyurcsany has rejected turning Sunday's polls into a  referendum on his leadership, especially after the European  Commission on Tuesday endorsed the austerity programme of tax rises,  mass public sector layoffs and subsidy cuts.
Analysts have warned the economy could go into a tailspin  unlesss the public deficit is slashed. Hungary has the highest  public deficit in the European Union at a forecast 10.1 percent of  gross domestic product this year.
Gyurcsany appeared buffered from disappointment in Sunday's  ballot, with the most important race for the mayor of Budapest  likely to be won by the Liberal incumbent Gabor Demszky, who is  backed by the prime minister's Socialists.
Analysts have said Fidesz needed to win Budapest, where a fifth  of the country's 10 million population live, if it is to have any  chance of unseating Gyurcsany.
Gyurcsany said he expected the leftist coalition to win the  mayoral race in Budapest and in most of the the 23 big cities, as  well as most of the capital's 23 districts but to lose its hold in  several county assemblies.
Four years ago, the governing parties swept the elections,  winning the mayoral races in 17 of 23 big cities, including  Budapest, and a majority in 15 of 19 county assemblies.
"Now even if Fidesz manages to split these races evenly with the  governing parties, it would be a big defeat for Orban," said analyst  Krisztian Szabados, because it would show there is no overwhelming  feeling among voters to oust Gyurcsany.
Fidesz has said it will consider itself the winner even if it  loses the capital but wins the majority of the 20 county assemblies,  as polls predict.
The main opposition party had a 20 percent lead nationally  against the Socialists, according to a Tarki poll concluded days  before the start of protests.
But that lead may have eroded as the left has launched attacks  against Orban, linking him to the far-right demonstrations and the  violence.
Orban had urged voters to use the local elections as a  referendum on the government even before the start of far-right  rallies, raising doubts about whether the protests were spontaneous  or politically orchestrated.
"We must admit that there is a clear connection between the  inflammatory rhetoric (of Orban) and the destruction on the  streets," Budapest Mayor Demszky told a rally on Thursday.
The nightly demonstrations in front of the Hungarian parliament  have faded after reaching a high-point with a turnout of 20,000 last  Saturday evening, with only 2,500 people demonstrating on Friday  night.
Analysts say it will be hard to discern the winner in the  election, especially since some 60 percent of the more than 80,000  candidates are independents.
Voters will elect local mayors and representatives for  municipal, city and county assembly seats in a total of 3,174 town  and cities across Hungary.
Polling stations will open at 6:00 am (0400 GMT) and close at  7:00 pm (1700 GMT), with results expected later that evening.