Italian aide slain by Red Brigades buried amid ongoing tension
ATTENTION
INCORPORATES -Berlusconi series ///
ROME, March 22 (AFP) - Italy on Friday laid to rest a government aide slain by the far-left Red Brigades amid concern that the country could be facing a new era of urban guerrilla violence reminiscent of the 1970s and 1980s.
As Marco Biagi, gunned down outside his home in Bologna on Tuesday, was buried, Pope John Paul II issued a statement pleading for social peace and condemning violence.
"The pope firmly deplores all violent acts against human life and urges the pursuit of dialogue and understanding so as to attain real progress and solidarity for the good of the Italian nation," the message said.
Biagi, 51, was a key architect of controversial labor reforms put forward by Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi's government and is seen as a victim of mounting tension between trade unions and the authorities over the scheme.
President Carlo Azeglio Campi, parliament leaders and union representatives attended the funeral at Bologna's Saint Martin church for the economist, who helped draft the legislation which would make it easier to fire and hire workers.
Speaking on radio and television Berlusconi -- who did not attend the funeral -- said that "terrorists must know that they cannot stop the reforms."
"They must know that they will not stop change and will not stop the job of this government and its majority" in parliament, he added in his five-minute address.
"The government will move forward on the road to reforms, we must do so in memory of Marco Biagi," the prime minister said, praising Biagi for his "competence", "modern vision" and his spirit as an "innovator."
Union leaders, who have joined politicians from across the political spectrum in condemning Biagi's murder, are planning to bring more than a million people into the streets of Rome on Saturday in a massive show of opposition against the planned laws on greater labour flexibility.
The unions are also threatening a general strike before the end of April to protest the labor reforms.
The Red Brigades said in a statement claiming the murder that Biagi was "executed" for his role in the bid to overhaul existing labour laws.
Saying it was engaged in "a war with the State," the group charged that "the capital crisis has forced the imperialist bourgeoisie ... to redefine its means of exploitation ... and maintain its profit margins."
Both Berlusconi and his Interior Minister Claudio Scajola agreed that Biagi was a victim of the crisis.
Scajola said his murder came "at a time of particular social tension", while Berlusconi accused unions and leftwing parties of creating a poisonous atmosphere that was the backdrop for the slaying of Biagi.
"One must stop considering adversaries as enemies. We must end the spiral of political hatred and a deadly way of speaking worthy of a civil war," Berlusconi said after the killing.
Police believe Biagi's killers are a second-generation group of the Red Brigades who sowed terror across Italy twith bombings and assassinations that included the kidnapping and murder of Christian Democrat leader Aldo Moro in 1978.
Experts say the Red Brigades-Combatant Communist Party, which claimed responsiblity for Tuesday's killing, is smaller than the original group but that it is seeking to reach the same level of militancy.
Police said the semi-automatic 9mm pistol used to assassinate Biagi was the same weapon used to kill another government advisor, Massimo D'Antona, nearly three years ago in Rome. That murder was also claimed by the new Red Brigades group.