Hostage-taking in Amsterdam building ends when man commits suicide by Stephanie van den Berg
ATTENTION
UPDATES with end of hostage-taking, ADDS police quotes ///
AMSTERDAM, March 11 (AFP) - A lone gunman, apparently angry at a Dutch maker of widescreen televisions, held 18 people hostage for seven hours in an Amsterdam office building on Monday before committing suicide, officials said.
The 59-year-old man, who was not identified, stormed into the lobby of the 36-story Rembrandt office tower at about 9:20 am (0820 GMT), taking 18 people hostage, said Leo De Wit, spokesman for the Amsterdam prosecutor's office.
The man immediately contacted police and began negotiating, De Wit said, adding that in the course of the day, he released five women and two men, leaving 11 hostages.
The ordeal ended at about 4:30 pm, when the man shot himself twice in the head after asking police for a break in negotiations, De Wit said, adding the 11 were "fine" and had been taken to a nearby police station for questioning.
The man, who hailed from the town of Uithoorn just south of Amsterdam, carried two weapons -- a semi-automatic weapon and a handgun -- and was visibly agitated and confused, the spokesman said.
He also had a suitcase which he claimed contained explosives. Police analysis showed that the bag contained chemicals that in the right mixtures could have been dangerous, De Wit said.
"He objected to broadband widescreen TV and he wanted this to be known to the people," the spokesman noted.
Some 200 police officers, along with fire rescue crews and ambulances, were rushed to the scene as the drama unfolded.
But the man's suicide came as a complete surprise to negotiators, De Wit said.
Amsterdam police commissioner Joop van Reissen characterized the man as "very confused".
Electronics giant Philips, which manufactures widescreen televisions, once had offices in the Rembrandt Tower, but relocated to a nearby building last year.
During the day, the hostage-taker admitted that he had staged his assault on the wrong building, De Wit said.
The Rembrandt Tower currently houses several major companies, including international brokerage house Merrill Lynch and US investment bank Lehman Brothers.
But the suspect was apparently targetting Philips, allegedly for their promotion of widescreen televisions.
Dutch television NOS reported that the hostage-taker had sent a fax to them in which he proclaimed to be fighting "widescreen televisions."
The hostage-taker complained that salespeople were promoting the new television screens as "better looking than normal screens," said a NOS spokesman, quoting the fax.
"What you gain in width, you lose in height," the suspect protested, according to the report.
The man has been fighting the sale of widescreen televisions for more than a year, the fax added.
Posters that read "We mislead" in English could be seen on some of the office windows. A witness quoted by Dutch television said the suspect had forced hostages to stick up the signs.
Other posters with the phrase "Kleisterlee lies" -- referring to Philips chief executive Gerard Kleisterlee -- were visible from the windows on several floors of the building.