'Deeply shocked' Chirac defends summit snub of English speech by Leigh Thomas =(PICTURE)=
BRUSSELS, March 24, 2006
French President Jacques Chirac  defended Friday his eye-brow-raising exit from an EU summit session,  accusing the French head of Europe's employer union of piquing  French pride by daring to speak in English.
An ardent defender of the French tongue, Chirac said he had been  "deeply shocked" to hear English on the lips of the Frenchman in a  speech at the two-day European summit.
"I was deeply shocked that a Frenchman would speak at the  council table in English," he told journalists, explaining for the  first time his abrupt walkout when the summit opened on Thursday.
"That's the reason why the French delegation and myself left so  as not to have to listen to that," he added.
Chirac's surprise exit was one of the few incidents to spice up  an otherwise staid summit focused on agreeing a joint EU energy  strategy and reviving the bloc's economy.
When Ernest-Antoine Seilliere, head of the UNICE employers  federation, started his speech to the EU's 25 leaders, Chirac  interrupted and asked why he was speaking in English, according to a  French official.
"I'm going to speak in English because that is the language of  business," replied Seilliere, former chief of the French employers'  group MEDEF, which has been at odds with the government recently.
Raising eyebrows among his EU counterparts, Chirac stood up and  left the session with Finance Minister Thierry Breton and Foreign  Minister Philippe Douste-Blazy in tow.
Chirac, 73, and his ministers returned only after Seilliere  finished his address.
Other European leaders shrugged off Chirac's attempt to defend  French pride.
"Europe has other worries and it's a waste of time to have  responded to such questions," said Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker, who is usually a stout francophile.
Taking a shot at Seilliere, he added: "I cannot cease to be  amazed that while our French friends invite us to speak French many  of their top officials not in government are more than happy to  speak in approximative English".
British Prime Minister Tony Blair, claiming not to have noticed  Chirac's departure, tried to strike a light note about the incident,  saying with a smile: "People do get up and go for all sorts of  reasons."
To the consternation of Paris, English has overtaken French as  the European Union's lingua franca, especially since it welcomed 10  new member states, mostly former Soviet communist bloc states in  eastern Europe, in May 2004.
French speakers regularly complain that official documents  increasingly appear in English and only later in French, which is  along with German an official language for EU institutions.
Although English, French and German are the official languages  of the EU institutions, by tradition EU leaders speak in their own  language at summits through simultaneous interpretation.
Rubbing salt into the wounds Seilliere inflicted on French  pride, the Brussels correspondent for Britain's eurosceptic Sun  newspaper, Michael Lea,  approached Chirac at the end of Friday's  news conference with a small English-language phrase book for  tourists.
"This is a present from your friends at The Sun," Lea told the  French leader, who first looked puzzled, then smiled as he slipped  the little tome into his pocket.
The tabloid waged a provocative campaign against Chirac in the  run-up to the Iraq conflict in 2003, branding him "Le ver" or the  worm.