Polish capital braces for political demonstrations =(PICTURE)=
WARSAW, Oct 7, 2006
Poland was braced on Saturday for  rival demonstrations planned by members of the governing  conservatives and liberal opposition as the country's tumultuous  politics spilled onto Warsaw's streets.
The country's leading opposition party, Civic Platform, hoped to  rally between 5,000 to 10,000 supporters at a demonstration due to  kick off at noon (1000 GMT), to buttress its call for early  elections.
Meanwhile, the embattled conservative Law and Justice (PiS)  party of Poland's ruling twin Kaczynski brothers, hoped to score an  even stronger turnout to erase a dramatic plunge in its popularity,  sparked by an umpteenth political crisis and worsened by a scandal  in which a PiS member was caught on film, allegedly trying to buy  the loyalty of a rival party's lawmaker.
The Kaczynskis' cause is being supported by the ultra-Catholic  Radio Maryja, which has called on listeners to defend "the country  in danger, threatened by liberal and post-Communist attacks".
An earlier demonstration by supporters of the extreme-right  League of Polish Families (LPR), a coalition ally of Prime Minister  Jaroslaw Kaczynski, only gathered around 500 people.
"Two opposing Polands will meet in Warsaw Saturday," predicted  political analyst Kazimierz Kik on the eve of the demonstrations.
"The one is modern, pro-European, open to change and the other,  a clerical, anti-European one, which does not want any part in  economic change."
Along with the three main rallies, a smattering of smaller  gatherings were also expected in the capital Saturday.
The demonstrations cap days of political drama since Kaczynski  fired one of his deputies, Andrzej Lepper of the populist Samoobrona  party, plunging his fragile coalition government into its latest  crisis in one year of existence.
Meanwhile, Poland's justice minister has opened an inquiry over  television footage showing a senior PiS official trying to coax a  Samoobrona lawmaker into defecting to PiS.
The hidden camera scandal prompted the opposition Civic Platform  to introduce a motion for parliament to vote on its own dissolution,  which would lead to early elections.
But while it has lost its parliamentary majority, Kaczynski's  party, along with its extreme-right coalition ally, the LPR, still  have 183 of the 460 legislative seats -- enough to prevent a  two-thirds majority vote needed to dissolve government.