Record attendance expected at labor protests in Italy by Ljubomir Milasin
ATTENTION
ADDS info on other union participation ///
ROME, March 22 (AFP) - More than a million demonstrators are expected to pack Rome on Saturday to protest government social policies in what Italian trade unions are billing as the country's largest labor protest ever.
But the mass demonstration has taken on the new dimension of combating terrorism after a top government advisor was assassinated Tuesday in an attack claimed by the urban guerrilla group the Italian Red Brigades.
In homage to Marco Biagi, organisers have canceled cultural performances scheduled to take place before and after the protests, and demonstrators will silently file through the streets instead of chanting and singing.
Biagi, the principal advisor to the government on labor reforms that would make it easier to hire and fire workers, was buried Friday in Bologna in northern Italy, where he was shot dead earlier in the week.
Social tension in Italy has increased recently, with trade unions in particular discontented with the policies of Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, almost a year after his conservative government took over from six years of center-left rule.
The lefist Italian union federation CGIL, which numbers five million members, has chartered more than 10,000 buses as well as trains, planes and even a number boats to bring protesters from across Italy to the capital.
It has even turned to neighboring countries Austria, France and Slovenia for additional vehicles to transport all the demonstrators to Rome.
The main leaders of Italy's opposition center-left Olive Tree alliance -- themselves organisers of an anti-Berlusconi protest in early March that drew 120,000 people -- will also take part.
The two other main Italian union confederations, the centrist UIL and the Roman Catholic CISL -- which together also have five million members -- are not officially backing the protest, but their leaders are not preventing their members from participating.
The protests are to get under way Saturday at 10:00 am (0900 GMT), with six different processions wending through the capital towards the ancient Circus Maximus, the coliseum in the heart of Rome's antique ruins and the only location in the city capable of holding one million people.
The protests are expected to snarl traffic throughout a city already notorious for its massive traffic jams, with more than 50 kilometers (30 miles) of Rome's roads closed for the day.
Regional union chapters say they expect 30,000 to come from Piedmont and 100,000 from Lombardy in the north, with 19,000 people arriving from Sicily and 15,000 from Calabria in the south.
Authorities will deploy 7,000 police including elite special forces to guarantee security through the march, which a union source said will cost 15 million euros (13 million dollars).
The head of the CGIL, Sergio Cofferati, is to address protesters at mid-day in a speech shown on a number of giant screens.
Berlusconi, a businessman and media tycoon, took office vowing to overhaul the country's labor, immigration, justice, health and education sectors.
While elected with a solid majority in parliament, the prime minister has come under increasing fire from the opposition, most recently over the imposition Wednesday of a country-wide state of emergency to combat a growing influx of illegal immigrants.
The state of emergency -- which could remain for up to a year -- was imposed after a crippled ship carrying nearly 1,000 Kurdish immigrants was towed into a Sicilian port on Monday after trying to reach western Europe from Lebanon.