Four soldiers in a jeep reawaken Austrian memories of WWII = (PICTURE) =
VIENNA, Sept 5
The people of Vienna have watched  open-mouthed in recent days as soldiers in British, French, Russian  and US uniforms have driven in jeeps along the streets of the  Austrian capital, in memory of the period from 1945 to 1955 when it  was divided into four Allied occupied zones.
The reenactment is part of the country's celebration of its 60  years of independence, 50 years of sovereignty and 10 years as a  member of the European Union.
The "Four in a Jeep" patrols, inspired by the film of the same  name by Swiss director Leopold Lindtberg in 1951, will continue on  the streets of Vienna until September 16.
In each of the former Allied occupied zones an authentic 1944  model jeep carries actors representing the soldiers of each country,  will be armed with pots of paint and rollers. Their task is to mark  out on the former borders of each of the zones.
A giant poster in front of the confederation of industry  building, in the city centre, reminds the local residents that it  was once the headquarters of the Allied Council in Austria.
The project, baptised "25 Peaces", seeks to use public spaces to  stimulate public awareness and debate about Austria's stormy past.
The reactions of Austrians to the project are mixed.
"People are curious, they come to ask us questions, they take  photos. The young people especially are enthusiastic. Other people  are sometimes shocked," said Gunther, 38, dressed as a French  soldier.
"What's this awful thing?" said one Austrian woman in her 50s  after seeing the soldiers in the jeep.
"What's the point of digging up the past? It's better to  concentrate on the present".
According to an opinion poll published in May, half of the  Austrian people do not want to hear any more discussion of World War  II and consider the issue closed.
The poll also found that 41 percent of Austrians questioned said  they were "unsure" whether they considered the end of World War II  as a "liberation" or a "military defeat".
The project highlighting the occupation is being staged all over  the country: the former occupied zones are also marked on all the  highways with banners saying "You are leaving the US zone" or "You  are entering the French zone".
"'How you feel today about the freedom which we enjoy?' This is  the question that we wanted to ask people, especially the young,"  Wolfgang Lorenz, one of the project organisers told AFP.
" By recreating the former occupied zones, we want to remind  people that borders existed in some areas and that freedom is not  automatic."
"25 Peaces" has raised controversy in Austria with historians  criticising its theatrical approach to history.
However Lorenz emphasises that it is "always good to open the  debate" and that his activities in public areas allows him to reach  a young public who are often poorly informed about the history of  their country.
The operation could cost up to eight million euros (10 million  dollars) with one million from public subsidies and the rest from  the private sector.
On May 15 the 50th anniversary of the signing of the treaty of  state which began the departure of foreign troops  was celebrated  with great pomp and ceremony in the presence of representatives of  the former Allies.
Annexed by Hitler in 1938 until 1945, Austria has admitted  officially for the past several years that while it was a victim of  Nazi occupation its inhabitants also participated in its crimes.
A state-commissioned report released here in 2003 found that  ordinary Austrians enthusiastically collaborated with the Nazi  regime in oppressing Jews during the war.