Hungary PM to receive boost from EU backing of austerity plan by Zoltan Simon =(PICTURE)=
BUDAPEST, Sept 26, 2006
Embattled Hungarian Prime  Minister Ferenc Gyurcsany is set to receive a boost on Tuesday from  the European Commission, which is expected to back austerity  measures at the centre of anti-government protests here.
The multi-billion-euro austerity package, which seeks to slash  the public deficit from 10.1 percent of gross domestic product this  year to 3.2 percent in 2009, is part of the country's so-called  convergence plan to meet eurozone criteria between 2011 and 2013.
An EU source told AFP on condition of anonymity on Monday that  the plan would get the green light from Brussels after an earlier  version was rejected in January for its lack of credibility.
Hungary has been in political turmoil since September 17, when  it was revealed that Gyurcsany lied about the dire state of the  economy in order to win re-election in April.
After campaigning on a platform of tax cuts and higher social  spending, Gyurcsany forced the austerity package -- which calls for  tax rises, mass public sector layoffs and energy price subsidy cuts  -- through parliament in June.
The package counts on savings of 350 billion forint (1.27  billion euros, 1.62 billion dollars) this year and of 1.0 trillion  forint in 2007.
Conservative opposition leader Viktor Orban wants to make  municipal elections on Sunday a referendum on Gyurcsany and his  package, saying the Socialists had no mandate to pass the austerity  measures.
But Gyurcsany has been adamant the measures are necessary to  rein in the deficit and stabilize the economy, which analysts have  warned could go into a tailspin if the austerity package is diluted  or withdrawn.
Gyurcsany has refused to resign, saying the outcome of the local  elections, which are dominated by candidates with no party  affiliation and are likely to be inconclusive, would not derail his  economic policies.
Since he admitted to lying, far-right protests have taken place  daily in front of the Hungarian parliament, but they appear to be  losing steam.
On Monday evening, only about 6,000 demonstrators were out  calling for Gyurcsany to quit, down from some 8,000 on Sunday night  and 20,000 on Saturday.
The protests degenerated into street riots early last week,  leaving some 250 injured in the worst street violence the country  has seen since the end of communism.
Gyurcsany has criticized Orban for allying his party with the  protestors, who are calling not only for the prime minister's  resignation but also for the overthrow of democracy.
"We cannot have and we cannot allow cooperation with those who  reject the democratic foundations of the third Hungarian Republic,"  Gyurcsany said at a meeting of leftist city leaders in Budapest over  the weekend.
Low-key protests are expected to continue until midnight Friday.  Rallies will be banned starting 48 hours before the opening of  polling stations on Sunday.