Fifth night of unrest in Paris suburb following deaths of two  youths = (PICTURES + VIDEO) = ATTENTION - REPETITION correcting typo ///
CLICHY-SOUS-BOIS, France, Nov 1
Police fired tear gas  and ioters hurled Molotov cocktails as violence hit a poor Paris  suburb for the fifth straight night in unrest that officials said  Tuesday had also spread to neighbouring towns.
The local prefecture said that the levels of violence in the  troubled suburb of Clichy-sous-Bois were lower than on previous  nights.
However 12 people were arrested in the town, which has a large  Muslim community, during a night in which a Molotov cocktail was  thrown at a police station and 11 cars and trash cans were torched.
Tensions have been running high between police and gangs of  youths in Clichy-sous-Bois, northeast of the capital, since the  accidental death by electrocution last Thursday of two teenagers.
Many of the youths targeting police were angry at the deaths of  two youths, aged 15 and 19, who were electrocuted after they scaled  the wall of an electrical relay station and touched a transformer.
The local public prosecutor, Francois Molins, said the boys  thought they were being chased by police, but authorities denied  that was the case.
The launching of a tear gas grenade at a mosque late Sunday  threatened to further escalate the troubles.
Police fired more tear gas overnight Monday to disperse around  100 youths involved in a stand-off with some 50 officers near the  mosque.
The area was quiet by 1:00 am (midnight GMT).
In another worrying development, Monday night was the first time  that the unrest was reported to have spread to neighbouring areas of  the Seine-Saint-Denis region abutting Paris.
Just after midnight in nearby Montfermeil, the municipal police  garage was set ablaze and two cars destroyed, a prefecture spokesman  said.
Elsewhere in the towns of Sevran and Aulnay-sous-Bois police  were subjected to "stone-throwing" gangs but there were no injuries,  according to the local prefecture. Small fires were also lit in the  towns.
One police source told AFP that "the Clichy rioters are being  copied in Sevran, Neuilly-sur-Marne and Bondy", where he said  vehicles were torched.
However the prefecture described the latest trouble as  "harassment" by small groups of 10 or 15 people rather than the  "rioting" seen last week.
Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy -- who has implemented  hardline urban security policies in his bid to be a conservative  candidate in France's 2007 presidential elections -- visited the  administrative headquarters responsible for the suburb.
"Everyone has to understand that my determination is absolute"  in confronting the violence, he told journalists.
Sarkozy, who is also leader of France's ruling UMP party, vowed  to wage a "war without mercy" on crime in the Paris suburbs just a  week before the rampages.
The minister said Clichy-sous-Bois and the surrounding area  would be the first to try out his latest initiative: cameras on  police patrol cars to capture suspects' actions.
Asked about the tear gas grenade at the mosque, he admitted that  it was of the type used by anti-riot police but cautioned "that does  not mean that it was fired by a police officer."
The families of the two boys killed snubbed Sarkozy's invitation  to meet with them, and called the tear gas incident  "disrespectful."
"We are asking for calm, we are asking for justice and we are  asking for the riot police to leave," Siyakah Traore, brother of one  of the victims, told a press conference at the mosque.
Among those detained since Thursday were four minors, who were  to be brought before a children's court judge Tuesday.
Another magistrate on Monday ordered three young men to jail for  two months.
Of the 28,000-plus residents of Clichy-sous-Bois,  50 percent of  the population is under 25 and one-quarter of the breadwinners in  each household have no job, according to the town's website.
Like many working-class districts on the capital's northern rim,  it has a heavy concentration of immigrants including first and  second generation Muslims from France's former colonies.
Its "cities", the French euphemism for subsidized low-income  housing developments, are prey to the crime and social trouble  fuelled by unemployment rates more than double the national level of  around 10 percent.