Hungarian police clash with extremists after peaceful  demonstration by Michael Adler =(PICTURE)=
BUDAPEST, Sept 21, 2006
Hungarian police clashed with  small groups of extremist protestors in Budapest early Thursday  after a peaceful demonstration by some 10,000 people calling for the  resignation of Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsany.
Tear gas hung like a thick cloud in Oktogon square in the  capital after police fired canisters at 200-300 mainly young people,  some with scarves protecting their noses and mouths, who were  taunting and throwing bricks.
Police had earlier chased a group of some 80 skinhead  demonstrators as the anti-Gyurcsany rally broke up at Kossuth square  in front of parliament.
A total of 12 demonstrators were injured, three seriously, the  Hungarian news agency MTI said.
The massive security presence, with riot police moving in large  groups often followed by rows of police cars with their blue lights  flashing, had isolated the skinheads and police made arrests, with  the action being transmitted live on private Hungarian station HIR  TV.
More than 10,000 demonstrators had gathered Wednesday evening in  front of parliament for the third consecutive night to protest  against Gyurcsany.
The 44-year-old prime minister set off a political outcry after  it was revealed Sunday he had admitted to Socialist deputies in May  that he had lied to the country about the dire state of the economy  in order to win re-election in April.
The strong police presence Wednesday night was designed to stop  the kind of violent demonstrations which had left Monday and Tuesday  night more than 200 people injured and 137 arrested.
Streets in the capital were clear Thursday morning at about 3 am  (0100 GMT), with hundreds of police going back to their barracks.
Observers said police had apparently learned from the previous  days' unrest and were highly organized, allowing the sizeable press  contingent to move freely and take photographs.
Police however did move bystanders and even press forcibly out  of the way before mounting charges against protestors.
The demonstrators began dispersing from the parliament around 11  pm (2100 GMT) without incident but shortly after that police charged  protestors who were trying to incite violent actions.
An AFP reporter on the scene said that isolated militants  calling for demonstrators to move from the parliament to Oktogon  square, about two kilometres (a mile and a half), where there were  fewer police, were not followed by the crowd.
Police were seen wrestling to the ground a tall, red-haired man  in a white coat. A scrum of police surrounded him and led him away.
Kossuth square was empty of almost all demonstrators by 1:30 am  Thursday (2330 GMT Wednesday).
During the demonstration, riot police with shields, helmuts,  bulletproof vests and gas masks formed a security cordon around  parliament, an AFP correspondent at the scene reported.
There were vitrolic speeches slamming Gyurcsany, who on Monday  admitted he had lied to the country about the dire state of the  economy to win re-election in April.
"Resign, resign," chanted the crowd as people waved the  Hungarian flag as well as the red-and-white flag used by the  pro-Nazi Hungarian regime during World War II.
Meanwhile, HIR TV and the national MTV channel were partially  evacuated following two bomb hoaxes.
The MTV building was sacked by rampaging protestors on Monday in  the worst street protests to hit Hungary since the fall of communism  in 1989.
Despite promising tax cuts and higher social spending during the  election campaign, Gyurcsany has introduced harsh economic reforms  that include tax increases, mass public sector layoffs and cuts in  energy price subsidies that have left his party slumping in polls.
The austerity package is designed to rein in Hungary's massive  public deficit which stands at 10.1 percent of gross domestic  product (GDP), the highest in the European Union, and help the  former Soviet bloc state join the euro..
The right-wing opposition Fidesz Party, which is currently  riding high in the opinion polls, said Gyurcsany should quit office  before local elections due October 1.
Fidesz is expecting hundreds of thousands of supporters to turn  out for an opposition rally on Saturday.