Portuguese soap opera characters step out of closet by Daniel Silva = (PICTURES) =
LISBON, Sept 5
Portugal's three most-watched evening  soap operas have introduced gay characters over the past year, a  move activists hope will change attitudes in the deeply Roman  Catholic country despite a conservative backlash.
Gay characters have appeared on Portuguese television screens  before, mostly through imported Brazilian soaps which often stuck to  stereotypical portrayals.
But this is the first time that top-rated, locally produced  television dramas have featured gays in recurrent and largely  sympathic roles.
In the nation's most-watched show, "No One Like You", a subplot  revolves around a student's struggle to come to terms with his  sexuality and a crush on his supportive straight best friend.
The daily show, which regularly draws over 1.4 million viewers  and manages to beat broadcasts of football matches in the ratings,  also features an older, openly gay character whose sexuality is  accepted by his family and friends.
The youth-oriented soap "Strawberries With Sugar" meanwhile  features a young lesbian who comfortably explores her sexuality  while a key subplot in "My World" concerns a young man who is in a  relationship with a woman despite his growing doubts over his sexual  orientation.
All three shows air on television channel TVI. The station,  controlled by the powerful Roman Catholic Church when it began  broadcasting in 1993, has adopted more daring programming -- and led  prime-time ratings -- since falling into private hands five years  later.
While the main aim of producers of the series is to entertain,  they say they also hope the introduction of gay characters will help  educate the public.
"There was a natural tendency to try to break some social  restrictions around the subject," the head writer of "Strawberries  With Sugar," Ines Gomes, told AFP.
Portuguese society is one of western Europe's most socially  conservative, a legacy of a right-wing dictatorship that ruled the  country until 1974, and it has been slow to accept gay rights.
While neighbouring Spain legalized gay marriage in June, the  issue is not even on the political agenda in Portugal although  same-sex couples have since 2001 enjoyed the same tax benefits and  some rights of common law couples.
There are no openly gay politicians or television personalities  in the country of just over 10 million and opinion polls show it is  one of the most hostile nations in the European Union towards gay  marriage and child adoptions by gays.
Paulo Corte-Real, a representative of Portugal's chapter of the  International Association of Gays and Lesbians (ILGA), said positive  depictions of gays in popular culture could help foster greater  acceptance.
"Traditionally fiction pushed gays into the closet, it was a  topic only discussed in marginal movies and plays with low ratings.  It's very important that more popular series show that gays and  lesbians exist," he told AFP.
But not everyone is happy to see gays step out of the closet and  into their living rooms.
Portugese fado singer Goncalo da Camara Pereira, known for his  conservative views, sparked controversy in July when he accused TVI  of seeking to "promote" homosexuality, which he called a "proven  psychological disease".
"In the past gays were discreet, then they started to be open  and someday it will be obligatory," he told daily newspaper  24Horas.
The far-right National Front meanwhile is collecting signatures  on a petition urging Portugal's television watchdog to ban a  yet-to-debut reality show where style-challenged straight men will  get a makeover by five experts whose credentials include being gay.
The minor fringe group is organizing a march in the Portuguese  capital for September 17 against the show, to air on private  television Sic, and the "gay and paedophile lobby".
Producers of the shows argue they are just reflecting modern  urban life and say having programs without gay characters no longer  makes sense.
"It would be like having a cop show without a crime," the head  writer of "No One Like You", Rui Vilhena, told daily newspaper  Correio da Manha last month.