Three jailed after fourth night of violence in Paris = (PICTURES) = ATTENTION - UPDATES with three jailed, Sarkozy details ///
CLICHY-SOUS-BOIS, France, Oct 31
Three men were jailed  Monday after police clashed with youths in a Paris suburb for a  fourth straight night, as angry residents accused police of throwing  a teargas grenade at a mosque.
In all, 27 people have been arrested since the violence first  erupted late Thursday night.
Two 25-year-old men and another aged 27, detained on Friday  during the worst of the rioting, were handed eight-month jail  sentences including two months' firm imprisonment for throwing  projectiles at police officers.
Five other adults were due to appear before the judge north of  Paris later Monday, while three teenagers were to appear before a  children's court judge.
The latest night of rioting in the northeastern suburb of  Clichy-sous-Bois, left eight cars and 16 rubbish bins torched,  adding to dozens of other vehicles that were incinerated in the  preceding rampages.
There were no reports of civilian casualties but six police  officers were slightly injured.
As with the previous nights of rioting, the violence dissipated  before dawn and the suburb was calm during the day Monday.
The unrest was originally triggered when two teenagers, aged 15  and 17, died by electrocution on Thursday after they scaled the wall  of an electrical relay station and touched a transformer.
Molins said the boys thought they were being chased by police,  but authorities have denied that was the case.
Hundreds of the suburb's residents held a peaceful march  Saturday in memory of the teenagers, with groups of youths wearing  tee-shirts marked "Dead for Nothing".
A lawyer representing the families of the victims, Jean-Pierre  Mignard, asked: "Why did these young people, who had done nothing  wrong, feel sufficiently threatened to enter a dangerous site, climb  over a 2.5-metre (six foot) barbed-wire covered wall and hide inside  a turbine?"
The clashes have pitted youths -- at times several hundred of  them -- against police, leaving a total of 23 officers injured.
Clichy-sous-Bois is a low-rent, high-immigration district with a  large share of public housing and a history of social problems.
A police teargas grenade thrown into the local mosque -- near to  which "100 to 150 youths were looking for a fight," according to  departmental security spokesman Jean-Luc Sidot -- looked certain to  worsen the running conflict.
Muslims inside the building accused police of firing the weapon  into a place of worship.
Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy confirmed that the grenade was  of the type used by riot squads, but said "that does not mean that  it was fired by a police officer."
An inquiry was underway into the incident, he said, adding that  he would speak with the mosque's imam, or prayer leader.
The families of the victims on Monday turned down an invitation  to meet Sarkozy, and slammed the reported teargas incident as  "disrespectful".
"We are asking for calm, we are asking for justice and we are  asking for the riot police to leave," Siyakah Traore, brother of one  of the victims, told a press conference at the mosque.
Sarkozy did, however, meet five of the victims' friends, who  agreed to call for an end to the violence.
Opposition and rights campaigners said the riots were fuelled by  tough new French anti-crime policies espoused by Sarkozy, who vowed  to wage a "war without mercy" on crime in the Paris suburbs just a  week before the rampages.
Sarkozy repeated on Monday that he was "totally determined" to  combat the violence.
The main police union described the riots as "guerrilla"  violence and urged politicians to avoid "putting fuel on the fire"  by scoring points against each other over the clashes.