Hitler auction stormed by royal gatecrasher
LONDON, Sept 26, 2006
Watercolours thought to have been  painted by Adolf Hitler auctioned for twice their estimated price on  Tuesday after a well-known comedy protestor gatecrashed the sale.
The collection of 21 paintings was found in Belgium in an attic  close to where the Nazi dictator served during the First World War,  and sold for 118,000 pounds (223,500 dollars, 176,000 euros).
It had been expected to attract bids up to 50,000 pounds in the  auction run by Jefferys Auctioneers in Lostwithiel, southwest  England.
Many of the paintings, which were mostly landscapes, were signed  "A Hitler", while others "AH". There were also two books about  Hitler included.
The single most expensive item sold was a watercolour of "The  Church of Preux-Au-Bois", which sold for 10,500 pounds -- it had  been estimated at between 2,500 and 3,500 pounds.
One of the buyers, who gave his name as Carlo and was from  Estonia, said he was working for an eastern European businessman and  had a "budget to bid for anything that has Hitler's signature."
"I think they are probably being bought for business -- the  paintings are not very good and it's not nice to have a 'Hitler' on  your living room wall."
The comedy protestor, Aaron Barschak, gained instant notoriety  in 2003 when he evaded security at Prince William's birthday bash at  Windsor Castle, climbed on stage dressed as Osama bin Laden, and  kissed the prince on both cheeks as he addressed guests.
The 40-year-old's latest stunt saw him invade the auction house  sporting a purple suit and a giant black beard and accompanied by a  man dressed as Hitler, about half-way through the auction.
Barschak and his companion, who said he was called Frank Sanazi,  shouted they were bidding "six million because the painting was a  Mussolini" before security guards dragged them away with Barschak  shouting: "See -- they're throwing Jews out!"
His wife Tamara told reporters outside that her husband was "an  intellectual Jew".
"The sale here is offensive -- it should never have been held,"  she said.
"If it was in London, there would have been protests. Adolf  Hitler was a mass murderer and to make money from that is wrong."
Despite the protests, a spokesman for Jefferys said the  auctioneer would not hold back from staging future auctions of a  controversial nature.
"The protest is not worth any comment," he said.
"It was a schoolboy prank, and we are very pleased with the way  it was handled by the security staff.
"The sale itself went very well, the prices exceeded our  expectations."
Though steps taken to prove the authenticity of the paintings  were unsuccessful, a spokesman for the auctioneer said they were  very similar to other works by Hitler.