British scientist supports cosmetic animal testing: report
LONDON, March 4, 2006
A British-based neurosurgeon who  became one of the few scientists to publicly back the use of  vivisection for medical research also condones the use of animals to  test cosmetics, The Guardian said Saturday.
Professor Tipu Aziz told the newspaper in an interview: "People  talk about cosmetics being the ultimate evil. But beautifying  oneself has been going on since we were cavemen.
"If it's proven to reduce suffering through animal tests, it's  not wrong to use them. To say cosmetics is an absolute evil is  absurd."
The comments by Aziz, who uses monkeys in his research into  Parkinson's Disease at the University of Oxford, southern England,  come a week after a demonstration in the city in support of his and  other scientists' work.
He and others spoke out despite the threat of intimidation and  violence by animal rights campaigners, who are bitterly opposed to  the building of a new biomedical research laboratory in the city.
Work on the 20-million-pound (29-million-euro,  35-million-dollar) project was halted in July 2004 when contractors  pulled out due to a sustained protest campaign. Construction resumed  under strict security late last year.
Pro-vivisectionists and fellow scientists quoted by The Guardian  appeared to distance themselves from Aziz's remarks on cosmetic  testing using animals, which was banned in Britain in 1998, saying  it was his personal opinion.
Protests against laboratories and companies involved in animal  testing have regularly made headline news in Britain over recent  years.
Separate, long-running campaigns have targeted workers and those  connected to Huntingdon Life Sciences in Cambridge, eastern England,  and a farm in Staffordshire, west central England, breeding guinea  pigs for medical research.
In October 2004, extremists were widely blamed for stealing the  remains of a relative of the farm's owner from a churchyard. Her  body has not yet been recovered.