Anti-ETA rallies planned in Spain after politician slain
ATTENTION
UPDATES throughout, CHANGES scheduled dateline ///
ORIO, Spain, March 22 (AFP) - Thousands of people gathered in this Basque town and across Spain on Friday to protest the murder of a local politician blamed on Basque separatists ETA.
Juan Priede Perez, gunned down in a cafe here Thursday, was laid to rest as protesters expressed their anger over the militant group which has troubled the nation for more than 40 years.
The 69-year-old Priede Perez, the only Socialist on the town council, was shot by two gunmen who fled in a car police believe they later identified. The vehicle was blown up, out of fears it could have been booby-trapped.
The politician is believed to be the first victim this year of the militant ETA, who have been fighting for an independent Basque homeland including parts of southwestern France.
The slaying cAm- just ahead of a Basque Socialist Party emergency congress scheduled for Saturday and Sunday to debate whether the party should seek closer ties with Basque moderates.
Observers say a rapprochement would further isolate ETA's political arm, Batasuna, which the Spanish government is seeking to outlaw.
Late Thursday, the government of Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar and the Socialist opposition reached an agreement on changes to election laws that would result in a ban on Batasuna.
The draft legislation sets out criteria to outlaw political parties, such as support for violence and having members who have been convicted on terrorism charges.
The cabinet gave its approval to the draft legislation on Friday.
Madrid has long maintained that ETA, blamed for the deaths of at least 800 people since 1959, many in bomb attacks, is a terrorist organisation.
Priede Perez was the 39th person, including five Socialist politicians,  killed in attacks since a 16-month ETA ceasefire was broken in January 2000.
As has been the custom after every suspected ETA killing, people gathered in the streets at night to demonstrate against the wave of violence.
The bishop of nearby Saint Sebastian, in a message read at the service for Priede Perez, lashed out at the latest episode of political violence in the country.
"This deadly incident reveals a stubborn will to impose a social programme on the people by brute force," Bishop Juan Maria Uriarte said.
Earlier in the day a silent demonstration was held in Orio, attended by Nobel prize winning writer Jose Saramago and regional Basque government president Juan Jose Ibarretxe.
Othe rallies were held in cities and towns across the country, including the capital Madrid, where lawmakers also observed five minutes of silence in mid-afternoon outside government offices.
ETA has been waging an armed campaign for the past four decades to create a Basque state comprising four Spanish provinces and parts of southwest France.
Spain has been using its current tenure as head of the rotationg European Union presidency to push a strong anti-terrorism line on the continent.
Aznar has vowed to make it the number one priority during the nation's six-month stint as the union's president, which runs out at the end of June.