Demo in Paris against squat shutdown, expulsion of illegal  immigrants =(PICTURE)=
PARIS, Sept 9, 2006
Several well-known French actors and  politicians joined more than 1,000 people in Paris on Saturday to  demonstrate against the government's severe crackdown on squats and  illegal immigrants.
"What do we want? Residency papers! For who? For everyone!" the  crowd cried as it wound its way through the French capital.
A number of well-known people turned out to lend their support,  including actresses Emmanuelle Beart and Josiane Balasko, comedian  Guy Bedos, Socialist deputy Jack Lang, anti-globalisation figurehead  Jose Bove and Dominique Voynet, presidential candidate for the Green  party.
They marched on behalf of immigrants without valid residency  papers and hundreds of people who last month were forcibly thrown  out of France's biggest squat located in Cachan, a suburb just south  of Paris.
"We ask for hope to live freely. We are fed up of hiding like  murderers," said one of the expelled squat-dwellers who said he had  been on a hunger strike for the last 19 days in protest.
In the southwestern city of Toulouse, about 50 people gathered  at a detention centre where authorities were examining the situation  of six immigrants who are threatened with deportation, including a  Moroccan mother and her three-year-old daughter.
French authorities are currently examining applications from  thousands of illegal immigrants as part of a plan to give residency  papers to families with school-age children.
The government has introduced a much tougher line on immigration  and Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy has vowed to step up the pace  of deportations of illegal immigrants to 25,000 this year.
Parliament approved a new law in June which seeks to encourage  more qualified workers to come to France but tightens entrance rules  for other foreigners, in particular for immigrants' families.
It also scraps the automatic right to residency papers for  illegal immigrants who have been in the country for at least 10  years.
The problem of illegal immigration is likely to be one of the  major issues in presidential and legislative elections scheduled for  May and June next year.