Al-Qaeda-linked Algerian goes on trial in N. Irish first by Herve Amoric
BELFAST, Sept 8
The non-jury trial of an Algerian  accused of links to the Islamist Al-Qaeda terror network opened in  Belfast on Thursday, a first in Northern Ireland.
The defendant, Abbas Boutrab, sat quietly in the dock wearing a  blue sweater with a white stripe as the trial began in a "Diplock"  court, set up in Northern Ireland in 1973 to prevent jury  intimidation in paramilitary and terrorist-related trials.
Until now, only those accused of crimes linked to Catholic or  Protestant armed groups have been judged in such courts.
Boutrab's lawyer Frank O'Donoghue asked judge Ronald Weatherup  for all court proceedings to be translated into written Arabic  regularly and for him to have an interpreter always at his side.
Crown prosecutor Joe Creaney was due to make opening remarks  shortly.
Though Creaney and O'Donaghue appeared for the trial's opening  at 1030 a.m. (0930 GMT), the judge did not turn up until about 90  minutes later. No reason was given.
Boutrab, 32, is being tried on charges of handling stolen goods  and a stolen Italian passport as well as possession of articles for  a purpose connected to terrorism contrary to section 57 of the  Terrorism Act 2000, legal sources said.
In 2003, the High Court in Belfast was told he had documents  that "appear to relate to Al-Qaeda terrorism".
The police became interested in Boutrab, who is slightly built  and has a dark beard, while monitoring telephone calls he made from  prison, where he was awaiting expulsion after being refused  political asylum in Northern Ireland.
But the accused, interviewed earlier this week in the  high-security Maghaberry jail, west of Belfast, told AFP he was  innocent and charged he was facing discrimination for being Muslim  and Algerian.
"I had the Jihadist's manual and an Afghan book about military  training," he said of the material seized at his flat.
"I got that from the Internet, from Muslim websites. I was just  curious. I did not know it was forbidden," he told AFP in the  interview.
"These are only documents, not bombs," he added.
"I have never been to Pakistan or Afghanistan. I've never left  Europe since I left Algeria" at the age of 14, he said. "I don't  have any contact with Islamic organisations."
However, he admitted he had travelled on false documents.
"I had a stolen Italian passport and ID, fake papers," said  Boutrab, who lived on casual jobs in several European countries.
"I am illegal and I am a Muslim, that's a lot for them," says  Boutrab, who went on hunger strike for three weeks in May to protest  against the alleged mistreatment he has suffered in Maghaberry.
"I suffer psychological abuse. They talk about me behind closed  doors. The guards... don't let me sleep. At night, they come outside  my cell to make noise, they have set up a special surveillance  programme for me," Boutrab said.
"They don't even let other prisoners come near me. As soon as  somebody speaks to me, they remove him.
His trial is expected to last several days.