Swedish PM to lead peace march as Sweden mourns slain Lindh by Dmitry
Zaks
STOCKHOLM, Sept 12 (AFP)
Swedish Prime Minister Goeran Persson was to lead a mass gathering in Stockholm on Friday in memory of foreign minister Anna Lindh, who died of a fatal stabbing that has left Sweden in shock.
The demonstration in the centre of the city has been called "A Protest against Violence and For Democracy".
The second day of mourning over Lindh's death followed a night on which thousands of stunned Stockholmers held candle-light vigils and lay beds of roses -- the symbol of Lindh's Social Democratic party -- at spontaneous memorial sites that sprung up in the city.
"I think we just lost the most important person who existed in modern Swedish politics. It will take many years to find another person like her. And perhaps we never will," said salesman Ronny Soderberg.
And morning television news coverage was consumed with interviews of ordinary citizens who often looked too shattered by Lindh's fatal stabbing at an upmarket department store Wednesday to string together more than a few words.
That outpouring of grief for one of the country's most popular leaders was to culminate at 5:00 pm (1500 GMT) when Persson was to speak at the gathering at the Sergels Torg square.
A second demonstration was also scheduled in Sweden's second city of Gothenburg -- the bedrock of Social Democratic support.
"Sweden has lost one of its most important representatives, our face to the world," Persson said in a televised broadcast to the Swedish nation Thursday evening.
"The country is in shock and plunged into sadness," Persson said.
Persson summed up the helpless feeling of utter disbelief shared by his fellow Swedes by saying: "It feels unreal, it is difficult to truly understand."
But he added that a hotly contested referendum on whether to adopt the euro as the country's currency -- a move that Lindh fought for fervently -- would go ahead as planned on Sunday.
A poll released Friday after Lindh's death by the Skop research institute showed that although most Swedes had opposed the euro before, the "yes" and "no" camps were now running neck-and-neck.
Some economists suggested this was an emotional breaking point linked to Lindh's slaying and that the "yes" would prevail Sunday.
But a second opinion poll published Friday conducted by Sifo for the TT news agency showed that the "no" vote has kept its lead since the death of Lindh.
The 46-year-old mother of two succumbed to massive internal bleeding caused by a damaged liver on Thursday morning.
But a hunt for the attacker has so far borne no fruit, with police announcing Friday they had released 32-year-old man, once seen as the prime suspect, after questioning him in connection with the attack.
"We have a number of people that we are investigating, we have not singled out a suspect," Stockholm police spokesman Bjoern Pihlblad told AFP.
Lindh was a heavyweight on Sweden's political scene who had been tipped to succeed Persson as prime minister.
The attack on Lindh, who was without a bodyguard, brought back memories of the 1986 assassination of former prime minister Olof Palme as he was leaving a cinema in downtown Stockholm.
It has also re-ignited the debate on whether Sweden's top politicians are well enough protected.
Christian Democratic leader Alf Svensson said he was "at a loss for words to describe the sorrow and anger" he felt at the news of Lindh's death.
"What should never have happened, has just happened again," he said, referring to the Palme assassination.
"For the second time in a short time span, a great personality of our country is brutally murdered," he said.
A member of Sweden's ruling Social Democratic party, Lindh became foreign minister in 1998. She was voted the fourth-most admired woman in Sweden in a recent survey.