More than 100,000 join anti-Le Pen protests around France
ATTENTION
UPDATES with new figures ///
LYON, France, April 22 (AFP) - More than 100,000 people took to the streets of French cities in a wave of spontaneous protests on Monday against far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen's success in the first round of the presidential election.
In the western city of Tours, France's star anti-globalisation militant, Jose Bove, told some 12,000 demonstrators during a two-hour march: "We must say no to Le Pen in the streets, every day."
Bove said annual May Day celebrations would be marked this year by "the fight against fascism and expulsion".
Among the mostly young demonstrators were many immigrant youths.
The demonstration was the biggest in the city for many years, and possibly since France-wide protests in 1968.
Le Pen, a 73-year-old former paratrooper who ran on an anti- immigration, anti-EU and tough law-and-order ticket, took France by surprise when he beat Socialist Prime Minister Lionel Jospin to second place in Sunday's vote.
With 17 percent of the vote he qualified to run against incumbent President Jacques Chirac in the deciding second round on May 5, though he has practically no chance of beating him.
Some 10,000 people marched in the eastern districts of Paris, and nearly as many joined protests in the northern city of Lille.
Demonstrations that drew tens of thousands of people were also held towns between Brest in0phl west and Strasbourg in the east, as well as Marseille, Bordeaux and Toulouse.
Earlier Mondaanting slogans equating Le Pen to Hitler and calling his National Front (FN) a fascist organisation.
"Mussolini: 1922. Hitler: 1933. Le Pen: never," members of the rally in Strasbourg cried.  "You're out Le Pen -- the young are in the streets," others shouted in Lyon.
They were joined by university students, who swelled the ranks of the demonstrations in each city to between 1,000 and 4,000.
"F for 'fascist', N for 'Nazi'," some screamed in reference to the initials of Le Pen's party, while others carried a newspaper cover with Le Pen's photograph and "No" headlined across it.
Outnumbered police looked on as the unplanned gatherings flowed down main streets. No violence was reported and some of the rallies wound down after several hours.
Other anti-Le Pen demonstrations took place immediately after Le Pen's second-place slot in Sunday's election became clear, and carried through to early Monday.
In Paris, around 15,000 marched along streets before being blocked by police barricades at the central Place de la Concorde, near the presidential palace and the French parliament building.
Riot squads fired tear gas to disperse the protesters after a small group of youths tried to breach the barriers and scuffled with officers. Police said two officers were slightly injured, several shop and restaurant windows were shattered and traffic lights broken.
May 1 is expected to bring the street protests to a head, when left- wing and anti-Le Pen demonstrations coincide with a National Front rally in central Paris just four days before the final presidential election round.
A student federation, FIDL, called for a coordinated and simultaneous protest Tuesday in all French cities and towns from 3:00 pm (1300 GMT). Another student union, the UNEF, said it was organising similar rallies for Saturday.
Anti-racism and human rights groups called for big demonstrations to take place in Paris and other cities over the weekend.  Many of the associations said they were grouping themselves into an anti-Le Pen front and would coordinate their actions.