French tobacconists strike over price hikes by Hugh Schofield
PARIS, Oct 19 (AFP)
France's 34,000 tobacconists downed shutters in their first ever strike Monday to protest against tax increases which will see the price of a packet of cigarettes go up by more than 50 percent in a year.
Nine out of 10 cigarette-sellers closed for the day and 60 demonstrations were planned across the country. During the morning protesters blocked a cigarette warehouse at Lognes east of Paris and newspaper depots at Calais and Amiens in the north.
Monday saw a 20 percent increase in tobacco prices, the second this year following an eight percent rise in January. A further increase on January 1 will mean an average packet of 20 cigarettes will have gone up from 3.6 euros to 5.5 euros (4.2 - 6.4 dollars).
"The government says loud and clear that it wants the day to come when there is not a single smoker left in France. What I want is to make sure that our network of 34,000 traders doesn't disappear as well," said Rene Le Pape, president of the Confederation of Licensed Tobacco Sellers.
French tobacconists have a monopoly on cigarette sales and take a percentage of every packet sold. Their shops are also licensed outlets for postage stamps as well as government excise and fine payment stamps.
"Right now 1,500 tobacconists are on the point of selling up. Another 5,000 are in great difficulties but could pull through if there is help. The number of bankruptcies has gone up by 57 percent in a year," Le Pape said.
The centre-right government of Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin has made it a priority to bring down the country's stubbornly high smoking figures. Around 42 percent of the population are smokers and more than half of 19-year-olds.
Last week the education ministry launched a campaign to have an existing ban on smoking in public places fully enforced in secondary schools -- prompting walk-outs by students in two establishments protesting against the prohibition.
But opposition politicians have also accused the government of using cigarette tax as an easy money-earner at a time when state finances are in the red and the EU has been threatening sanctions because of an over-stretched budget deficit.
Health Minister Jean-Francois Mattei hinted there might be room for compromise on the timing of January's planned price rise. "We will see if it is appropriate for it to take place in January or if it should be postponed a short while," he told RTL radio Monday.
But he said the government's aim remained to reduce the number of young smokers by 30 percent and the number of adult smokers by 20 percent in five years. "The rise in tobacco prices will be used so as to permit us to reach that objective," he said.
The tax increases will put France among the most expensive countries in Europe for smokers. The same average packet of cigarettes costs 2.5 euros in Spain, 2.85 euros in Luxembourg and 3.7 euros in Belgium. Britain and Norway have the highest charges, at over seven euros a packet.
French tobacconists in border regions say their business is being ruined by the huge differential in prices, because there is nothing to stop consumers driving to neighbouring countries to stock up.
But police are more concerned at the rise in large-scale smuggling, which is already estimated to account for up to 30 percent of cigarette sales in Britain. Customs officials regularly make seizures of lorry-loads of contraband tobacco bound for the Channel ports.
Tobacconists argue that too fast a rise in official prices will drive much of the market underground, depriving the government of income but making little impact on consumption.
The government has offered an aid package worth around 120 million euros targeted at the worst-affected tobacconists, but their leaders say it is not enough.