Thousands protest closure of Bulgaria's communist-era police files
SOFIA, April 27 (AFP)
Some 5,000 demonstrators protested in Sofia Saturday a decision to suspend public access to communist-era secret police files, which authorities drew up on some 600,000 people before 1989.
"Let us not allow the past to be buried. We are not asking for revenge but the guilty must repent," said Nadejda Mikhailova, leader of the anti-communist opposition United Democratic Forces.
She called on Socialist President Georgy Parvanov to veto a new law on information services Bulgarian parliament adopted recently, which suspends access to the files.
Chanting protestors called for the resignation of ex-king Simeon Saxe- Coburg's government, which decided that the opened files had been exploited for political ends.
A commission set up last year, shortly before the UDF was ousted in June elections, has listed post-1989 lawmakers and government members who had secret police links as well as candidates in last year's presidential and legislative elections who had such links.
It was dissolved just as it was due to open the files of senior journalists, bank and insurance company bosses, judges and clergy, before publishing a full list of communist-era agents and informers.
Under communist rule, police files were compiled on some 600,000 Bulgarians, out of a total population of eight million, according to commission president Methodi Andreev.
Since 1997 individual Bulgarians have been able to ask the interior ministry whether a secret police file was compiled on them, and have access to it if it was not destroyed.
All attempts during the 1990s to identify communist-era police collaborators have been seriously blocked by the mass destruction of an estimated 50 percent of files in 1990 following the ouster of dictator Todor Zhivkov.
Two generals who were instrumental in that destruction were jailed this month. Among the files destroyed were those of dissident writer Georgi Markov, notoriously assassinated in London in 1978 by a "poison umbrella."