Blair's sister-in-law leads mass protest over British foreign  policy by Phil Hazlewood =(PICTURE)= ATTENTION - UPDATES, ADDS detail, new quotes ///
MANCHESTER, England, Sept 23, 2006
Tens of thousands of  people, led by Prime Minister Tony Blair's sister-in-law, held a  march Saturday on the eve of the ruling Labour Party's conference in  protest at British policy over Iraq, Afghanistan and Israel.
Organisers, who billed the event as the largest ever lobby of a  political party in Britain, claimed between 50,000 and 60,000 people  attended.
But police in Manchester, north-west England, the venue for both  convention and march, were more conservative in their estimates,  putting the number at about 10,000.
Labour's conference will be embattled Blair's last as leader and  prime minister before he steps down next year.
Lauren Booth, the half-sister of Blair's wife Cherie, led the  protest with notable left-wingers and the firebrand lawmaker George  Galloway, who was ousted by Labour because of his opposition to the  conflict in Iraq.
Others included Michael Meacher -- a former environment minister  in Blair's government -- Muslim groups, unions and the families of  some of the 115 British troops who have been killed in Iraq since  the conflict began in March 2003.
They also attacked Blair over cuts and privatisation in the  public health service and the revival of Britain's mothballed  nuclear energy programme and called for the country's Trident  submarine nuclear deterrent to be scrapped.
Booth, a journalist and commentator, told the crowds: "By chance  of marriage, I'm related to Tony Blair, a fact that makes neither of  us very happy today, I can tell you that."
She denied that she wanted to embarrass him, saying she wanted  to make him feel "ashamed" over deaths of civilians in Iraq and  Afghanistan and that he did not call for a ceasefire during the  recent conflict in Lebanon sooner.
Earlier, Booth told reporters Blair's foreign policy overall had  been "calamitous", while he had been "a disaster" in the Middle  East.
Drums, whistles and chants rang out around the heavily-policed  route in Manchester, which in the 19th century was a hotbed for the  trade union activism that led to Labour's creation.
Protestors called for Blair to resign immediately or be  impeached over his role justifying military action in Iraq.
In the crowd was retired British airman Christopher Rydon, 71,  who accused Blair of tarnishing the reputation of Britain's armed  services, with which he served for 12 years.
On Iraq and Afghanistan, he told AFP: "We've no business in  these wars at all. It was based on lies. It's been proved to be lies  and he's spoiled our good name," he added.
Lindsey German, convenor of the mainly left-wing Stop the War  Coalition, which co-organised the event, warned there would be no  let-up in the protests if finance minister Gordon Brown, bookies'  favourite to succeed Blair, takes over.
"Gordon Brown needn't think he's getting an easy ride of it...  Anybody who takes over had better change their policy or we're back  on the streets again," she said.
"We're not putting up with this again."