Portugal vows new measures to fight violence against women (ADDS details, background)
LISBON, March 8 (AFP)
Portuguese Prime Minister Jose Manuel Durao Barroso vowed Saturday to introduce new measures to fight "unacceptably high" levels domestic violence.
In a speech to mark International Women's Day, he said more than five women are killed each month in Portugal at the hands of their spouse or companion.
"I don't know if all of us are aware of the dimension of this problem which we must combat," he said.
"I think it is important that the government and society join forces in this effort because it is only in this way that we will give our children a better and more just society," he added.
Among the measures being planned is a public awareness campaign to be launched in the media during the second half of the year that will encourage victims to report abuse.
Creation of an agency to monitor domestic violence, gather statistics and compile a yearly report is also forseen as is the establishment of more women's shelters.
The government will also educate judges on the need to enforce existing laws regarding violence against women and is mulling raising the penalties for certain crimes.
Durao Barroso said the government also plans to introduce non-violence education into the curriculum of elementary and secondary schools as part of an effort to break the silence that surrounds the issue of domestic violence in Portugal and keeps women from reporting abuse.
Neighbours and family members of victims are often reluctant to get involved in a country where "between husband and wife insert not even a spoon" is a popular saying.
But growing numbers of Portuguese women have begun to speak out either against the abuse they themselves have suffered or against the suffering of those close to them.
Earlier on Saturday hundreds of women, many wearing mourning black, gathered at a central square in Lisbon to protest domestic violence and listen to a manifesto, signed by a number of prominent journalists and local celebrities, that urged victims to speak out.
"Enough!" and "No to violence" were some of the slogans on display at the march.
The march comes at a time of growing media attention in Portugal to the issue of violence against women, which was sparked in part by a high profile case involving a high society plastic surgeon and his journalist wife.
A top-selling daily, Correio da Manha, recently launched a regular advice column for victims of domestic violence. Hundreds of women have sent letters.
"'Pandora's box' has been opened," the editor of the column, Filomena Martins, wrote in an editorial on Saturday.
"The avalanche of letters grows day by day and the stories contained in them are increasingly more horrendous," she added.
ds