European parliament buys its buildings from Strasbourg city
STRASBOURG, Sept 28, 2006
President of the European  Parliament Josep Borrell on Thursday signed a deal with Strasbourg  mayor Fabienne Keller to buy  the complex of buildings around the EU  parliamentary seat.
The deal, worth 143 million euros (182 million dollars), was  made possible thanks to the French government which stumped up 11.9  million euros to bridge the gap between the selling price and the  EU's offer.
While the parliament has owned its main assembly building for  two years, the adjoining buildings have been leased until now.
Borrell said the deal would "safeguard the interests of the town  of Strasbourg and of the parliament," which intends to hang on to  its French headquarters despite growing protests over the money  spent to operate it.
He added that he did not believe that the 25 European member  states would reach the unanimous agreement required to change the  situation, which sees the parliament alternate between Brussels and  Strasbourg.
Campaigners on Wednesday handed the Finnish EU presidency a  one-million-signature petition calling for the European Parliament  to give up its Strasbourg headquarters and move full time to  Brussels to save money.
Many EU deputies, particularly those in the eurosceptic ranks,  have also long and loudly complained about the transport  difficulties and the extra costs they face when they travel to  Strasbourg each month.
Although the European Parliament's official seat is in the  northeastern French city, it meets more often in its capacious  buildings in Brussels.
The cost of the "double seat" has been put at 200 million euros  (250 million dollars) per year.
"The town has always wanted to be a good host for the European  Parliament, so that it will feel at home," said mayor Keller.
Any change would have massive implications for the city, whose  economy thrives on the influx of money from deputies, officials,  lobbyists and others who travel there each month, as well as the  prestige the institution brings.
Euro MPs on Tuesday lifted the last obstacles to the purchase,  after months of wrangling.