Greek PM slams his own policemen over demonstration
ATHENS, Oct 9 (AFP)
The Greek government said Thursday it was facing a "mutiny" by its own police force, justifying its decision to use tear gas to disperse policemen demonstrating in downtown Athens the night before.
"There was a mutiny by armed security forces," Public Order Minister Yiorgos Floridis told the Greek parliament.
"In Greece there is the rule of law. Just like the government, citizens can't proceed to arbitrary acts. The police trade unions are no exception," Greek Prime Minister Costas Simitis said in a statement.
About 200 Greek coastguards, firefighters and police pursued a sit-in in central Athens Thursday to demand higher salaries, despite a ban signed Wednesday on such protests in front of government buildings.
"We will pursue our movement and if the government continues its refusal to discuss our demands, we will demand a meeting with the president of the organizing committee of the 2004 Olympic Games to further our pressure," the head of the police union Dimitris Kyriazidis told AFP.
Two riot police battalions were keeping a close eye on the protest outside the economy and finance ministry throughout Thursday, an official with the striking police said.
The demonstration was to continue through Friday, even though riot police fired tear gas at protesters overnight when they refused to budge despite police chiefs telling them they were breaking the law.
Five police were injured in the clashes, sources among the protesters said.
"We just held a peaceful sit-in, everybody could leave and enter the ministry," Kyriazidis said earlier.
The chiefs cited a police order, signed Wednesday, banning demonstrations in front of government and public buildings in the greater Athens area.
Barred from walking off the job, some of the country's 70,000 firefighters, police and coastguards began a string of off-duty rallies on Wednesday to demand a new wage supplement to reflect the dangerous nature of their work.
The demonstrations are part of a wider movement among public sector employees, notably at hospitals, schools and Greece's many tourist sites, demanding wage increases from the government, which is to introduce next year's budget in December.
At the ministry, angry protesters shouted: "Don't let the rascals at the top fool you," at the predominantly younger riot police forces lined up against them.
"Don't worry, from now on you'll get used to the teargas," said Antonis Skyllakos, a protest-hardened Communist member of parliament who arrived at the scene to support the demonstrators' demands.