Debate over Islamic veil masks wider issues of integration
LONDON, Oct 26, 2006
Britain is the latest European  country to become embroiled in a row over the full-face veil, which  reflects wider issues about the extent and nature of Muslim  integration into Western society.
With Muslim clothing becoming more visible in recent years, most  "Old Europe" countries like Italy, France, Germany, the Netherlands  and Belgium, have all had to address the same question to varying  degrees.
According to British Prime Minister Tony Blair, the niqab --  where a woman's face is entirely covered except for her eyes -- has  often become the most noticeable "mark of separation" between  communities.
Earlier this month he said that similar discussions to the one  in Britain were happening in most European countries and that  wearing the veil masked a broader debate about integration.
In Britain, where the July 7, 2005 suicide bomb attacks held up  the country's much-cherished "multicultural" model to new scrutiny,  the debate has centred around the niqab, even though it is worn by  few Muslim women.
Last week, a 24-year-old Muslim teaching assistant who was  suspended for refusing to remove the niqab in the classroom, lost  claims of discrimination and harassment against her local education  authority.
Aishah Azmi, who is planning to appeal, alleged the veil made no  difference to her competency as a bilingual support worker,  dismissing school claims that it was a bar to face-to-face  communication.
As in many European countries, in Britain -- home to 1.6 million  Muslims mainly of Pakistani, Bangladeshi and Indian origin --  decisions on dress codes are mainly taken locally.
But France, which has Europe's largest Muslim population at  about five million, is rare in having adopted legislation about the  issue at national level.
The wearing of conspicuous religious symbols in state schools,  including the Muslim veil, was outlawed in March 2004 to widespread  controversy.
But although few women in France wear the niqab, it still causes  concern to some.
One lawmaker in April called for new legislation imposing  two-month jail terms or 3,750-euro (4,700-dollar) fines for  violating the principle that "any person on French soil must have  their face uncovered for ease of recognition and identification".
Jacques Maynard, from the governing right-of-centre Union for a  Popular Movement, views the niqab as "a violation of the equality of  the sexes, a very serious threat to the will to live together".
In the Netherlands, where 5.8 percent of the population is  Muslim and female public servants can wear the veil "unless they  interfere with safety, functionality or impartiality", the debate is  centred on the little-worn burka.
The Dutch parliament last year voted to ban the burka -- which  covers the entire body and head -- in public places but the law has  not yet been applied.
The justice ministry has said such a ban would go against other  anti-discrimination legislation.
In Germany, home to more than 3.2 million Muslims, mostly of  Turkish origin, some states have changed the law while others are in  the process of legislating on religious symbols in schools.
For example, in the conservative-run south-west state of  Baden-Wuerttemberg, teachers were banned from wearing the veil at  school.
A new law stated that such clothing could disturb "the peace of  an establishment and put into doubt the need for state secularity".
But last July, a court in Stuttgart allowed a female primary  school teacher -- herself a Muslim convert -- to wear an Islamic  headscarf in a state school.
In mid-October, high-profile Germans of Turkish origin,  including two female lawmakers, launched an appeal to Muslims not to  wear the headscarf to demonstrate their integration.
All of which stands at odds with secular Muslim Turkey, which  hopes to join the European Union, where headscarves are banned in  civic spaces, including schools, universities and official  buildings.
In Italy, where 1.7 percent of the population is Muslim, Prime  Minister Romano Prodi reignited the issue last week by saying: "If a  woman wants to wear the veil, all well and good."
But he added that "good sense" demanded that her face should not  be covered.
There were clear signs, however, that it is still a sensitive  subject.
Last week, Italian lawmaker Daniela Santanche, from the  right-wing National Alliance, was called an infidel by a Muslim  preacher after saying on television that wearing the veil was not  required by the Koran.
Santanche was offered police protection while right- and  left-wing politicians rallied in her support, with calls that  Muslims needed to integrate and accept the rules of democracy.
Old, and scarcely-enforced, laws banning any appearance in  public while masked have been resurrected although wearing  headscarves in schools is not outlawed.
Similar legislation has been enacted in parts of Belgium --  where 4.5 percent of the population is Muslim -- based on those  originally designed to govern the wearing carnival masks.