British postal strike looms as ballot result due by Daniel Rook
LONDON, Sept 17 (AFP)
Britain's first national postal strike for seven years loomed Wednesday as workers at state-owned Royal Mail awaited the result of a ballot held amidst a souring of relations between unions and government.
About 160,000 postal workers belonging to the Communication Workers' Union (CWU) have voted since late August on whether to stage a nationwide walkout in a protest over pay. The result was due at 2:00 pm (1300 GMT).
Last-ditch talks aimed at averting the industrial action were adjourned late Tuesday without any sign of agreement, a CWU spokesman said.
The prospect of a strike paralysing a key part of the British communications network has caused nervousness among firms, though Royal Mail is understood to have drawn up contingency plans to limit the chaos.
Royal Mail, wholly owned by the government, has more than 200,000 employees delivering mail and parcels, as well as staffing Post Office branches.
The group, which made a pre-tax loss of 611 million pounds (884 million euros, 957 million dollars) in the year to March, is struggling to cut costs and modernise in the face of growing competition from private sector operators.
The latest row comes as the business is trying to push through a restructuring package which would include the loss of as many as 30,000 jobs, and the end of twice-a-day mail delivery.
The operator has offered its staff a pay hike of 14.5 percent over 18 months linked to productivity improvements, but the CWU has rejected the proposed deal, complaining the offer contains "more strings than the philharmonic orchestra".
But Royal Mail chairman Allan Leighton, a former private sector executive taking a tough stand against the organisation's workforce, has warned that a strike would be "commercial suicide".
The strike would cost the Royal Mail up to 20 million a day and would ensure that the business could not recover from past losses, he told staff in a letter last month.
The stand-off follows a string of recent high-profile labour disuptes, including walkouts by firefighters and British Airways check-in staff, which comes amid a severe worsening of relations between unions and the Labour government.
Unions leaders took British Prime Minister Tony Blair and his government to task at the Trades Union Congress in the English seaside resort of Brighton earlier this month, notably on the future of public services.