Man killed as racial tension over alleged rape boils over in  English city by Lachlan Carmichael ATTENTION -- UPDATES with police press conference ///
LONDON, Oct 23
One man was stabbed to death and several  other people hurt in England's second city of Birmingham when riots  erupted over allegations a black girl was raped, though police said  there is nothing to substantiate the claim.
In an echo of violence in the same Lozzels Road area 20 years  ago, mobs pelted police with bricks, stones and bottles or smashed  shop and car windows with baseball bats and sticks, witnesses said.  At least one car was torched.
Police said that a black man died in the hospital of stab  wounds, while three other people suffered stab wounds and a police  officer had been injured in the thigh by a ball bearing gun.
One other person was shot but his wounds were not life  threating, they said.
It was widely alleged that a 14-year-old black girl was raped  and Inn owner India Murray told BBC television that the allegations  were directed at south Asians.
But Assistant Chief Constable David Shaw told a press conference  later that there was "not a shred of evidence" to support  allegations that a black girl had been subjected to a serious sexual  assault.
The riots erupted after members of the Afro-Caribbean and south  Asian communities held what police and media said was a peaceful  meeting designed to reassure the black community and encourage the  girl to come forward.
However, members of the black community claim she is reluctant  to contact officers because she may be deported as an illegal  immigrant.
The violence erupted around 6 p.m. (1700 GMT).
The police did not say who was involved in the violence or how  it erupted, but the Sunday Times newspaper said a gang of up to 30  Asian youths began throwing stones at some of the 300 people  attending the meeting in the church.
Meanwhile, a woman, who asked not to be named, said she saw  south Asians attacking blacks and heard later that a 20-year-old  black man was stabbed to death.
The woman, quoted by Britain's domestic Press Association, said  she had seen around 100 Asian men congregating outside an Asian  shop, put on hoods and masks and heard them say they would get  weapons.
"We thought they were joking, afterwards, we heard they had  stabbed a black guy down here," she said.
"Black guys up here on Lozells Road heard about the stabbing and  got very angry. I saw Asian guys chasing black guys down this road.  They had batons and everything else they could think of. They were  angry and cussing," she said.
The meeting on Saturday came a day after police renewed appeals  for the girl to come forward, as tension simmered.
Almost 1,000 people in the area have signed a petition calling  for "justice" for the girl and protests, sometimes involving more  than 100 people, have been continuing for the past week.
The rioting occurred in the Lozells area of the city, a poor  area which was devastated by two days of violent unrest in September  1985, following the arrest of a black man after a police stop and  search operation.
A reporter for the Press Association said her car was attacked  by a gang of youths wielding baseball bats as she drove through the  Lozells area.
A police helicopter hovered above the area with its searchlight  trained on the Lozells Road where it seemed the main violence was  taking place.