Workers appeal for tighter rules in shipbreaking industry by Phil Hazlewood ATTENTION - UPDATES throughout, ADDS quotes, accident-industry  slug ///
LONDON, Oct 9, 2006
Indian shipbreaking workers on  Monday called on industry chiefs meeting in London Monday for  tighter regulations to cut the number of serious injuries and deaths  in the sector, particularly in Asia.
"We need the help of the world, we need the help of the people  to help the workers," Vidyadhar V. Rane, secretary of the Mumbai  Port Trust Dock and General Employees' Union, told a news conference  here.
"Representation must be there and will help save the lives of  workers from unsafe practices."
Rane's call came as he and a delegation of Indian workers  arrived to lobby the International Maritime Organisation's Marine  Environment Protection Committee, which began a four-day meeting in  London Monday.
Ninety-five percent of old ships are broken up and recycled on  the beaches of India, Bangladesh, China, Pakistan and Turkey but its  poorly-paid employees have to run the gauntlet of life-threatening  hazards on a daily basis.
These include fire, explosions, falls from heights and exposure  to asbestos, heavy metals and PVCs.
Recycling of ships is on the IMO's agenda but the delegation and  unions want a speedier implementation of internationally-agreed  regulations on breaking up old ships to protect workers and their  livelihoods.
No accurate figures exist on how many deaths, injuries and  occupational ill health occur in the global shipbreaking industry  but the International Labour Organisation has classed it as one of  the world's most hazardous jobs.
Data from the the Directorate of Industrial Safety and Health in  Gujarat, India, showed that two out of every 1,000 workers involved  in shipbreaking in Alang suffered fatal accidents between 1995 and  2005.
Deaths in one of the most accident-prone sectors, the mining  industry across the sub-continent, was 0.34 per 1,000 during the  same period.
The Indian delegation threw flowers into London's River Thames  Monday in memory of the hundreds of workers who die each year in the  largely unregulated industry.
Rob Johnston, director for steel at the International  Metalworkers' Federation which is representing the workers, said:  "We need to give these workers a voice...
"This is not a backstreet, small industry but a huge industry  which employs tens of thousands of people."
The need to improve working conditions was particularly acute  because of predictions that the burgeoning Indian steel industry  will source more than a third of its raw materials from ship  breaking in the years to come, he added.
"The IMO is committed to a new international instrument. Our  problem is that it is likely to come into force internationally in  2015. Workers continuing to be killed, injured and exploited until  then is unacceptable," he added.
According to the IMF, there are about 25 million metalworkers  across the globe.
Thousands of workers, many of whom are migrants, die, are  injured or fall ill when recycling ships. They have little or no  legal rights, protective equipment or medical aid and earn only  about one dollar a day.