Britain says NIreland Protestants face a choice: law or anarchy by Herve Amoric and Eamon Mallie ATTENTION - ADDS quotes from US envoy ///
BELFAST, Sept 12
Northern Ireland's Protestants face a  "moment of choice" between law and gangsterism, Britain warned  Monday after rioters hurling pipe bombs, Molotov cocktails and  paving slabs injured at least 50 police and 10 civilians.
The clashes erupted Saturday over a ban on a parade through  Roman Catholic areas and exposed deep frustration among many  Protestants with the 1998 peace process that was intended to end  three decades of strife in the province.
"This is a moment of choice for everybody, for politicians and  for people right the way down through every part of the community,"  said Peter Hain, Britain's secretary for Northern Ireland affairs,  as he studied steps to take after a second night of rioting.
"Whose side are you on? Are you on the side of law and order,  applied fairly and equally to every citizen?" he asked.
"Or are you against law and order, siding with those firing  bullets at the police, throwing petrol bombs and blast bombs at  police and attacking them?"
At least 50 officers were wounded over the weekend when they  came under a hail of live rounds, paint bombs, pipe bombs, Molotov  cocktails and paving stones, police said. Ten civilians were also  injured.
Eighteen people were arrested Sunday alone as more than 700  Protestants attacked police in the Protestant east of the city,  police said.
Numerous cars were stolen and set ablaze Sunday night in  Alberbridge Road and in other clashes between Protestant youths and  police in the east, center and north of Northern Ireland's capital  city.
At Bangor, to the east of Belfast, a bus was hijacked, then set  on fire, after its passengers were robbed, while a police station at  New Barnsley, to the west, came under attack by rioters who tried to  ram the door with cars.
The violence was "not loyalism but gangsterism," Hain said.
He said he attended an intelligence briefing at police  headquarters which presented "absolutely clear-cut" evidence that  the outlawed Ulster Defence Association and the Ulster Volunteer  Force were behind the violence.
He said he would announce soon if the government recognized  whether the two groups were observing the ceasefire they declared in  1994, just weeks after the Catholic Irish Republican Army  ceasefire.
"I'm now going through, and indeed have been over the past week,  a process in which I will be making an announcement in the next few  days," Hain said.
Northern Ireland's police chief, Hugh Orde, on Sunday blamed the  Orange Order for sparking the first night of riots, which injured 32  police in the worst violence to hit the province in many years.  Another 18 police were hurt on Sunday.
The trouble grew out of Saturday's annual Whiterock parade, part  of a series of processions held in Northern Ireland every year  during the so-called "marching season" by members of the Protestant  Orange Order.
Marchers were angered by a decision by Northern Ireland's  Parades Commission to reroute the Whiterock march to keep it out of  areas dominated by Roman Catholics, who generally favor a united  Ireland.
The Orange Order's Belfast grand lodge rejected what it called  Orde's "intemperate, inflammatory and inaccurate remarks", saying  its members and supporters had been victims of "brutal and  heavy-handed police action".
The Orange Order -- which takes its name from Protestant King  William of Orange, who defeated James II's Catholics in Ireland in  1690 -- represents hardline opinion in the Northern Irish  Protestant, or loyalist, community, which wants to keep British  rule.
US President George W. Bush's envoy Mitchell Reiss condemned  Protestant political leaders for failing to condemn the violence.
"No responsible political leadership deserves to serve in a  government unless it supports fully and unconditionally the police,  and calls on its supporters to do so," he said.
He was referring to the Northern Ireland assembly, where  Protestant and Catholic politicians shared power under the peace  accords until it was suspended three years ago over allegations of  IRA espionage.