Mont Blanc tunnel re-opens commemorating fire victims by Jacques Guillon(PICTURES + GRAPHIC)
ATTENTION
UPDATES throughout, ADDS detail ///
CHAMONIX, France, March 9 (AFP) - The Mont Blanc tunnel linking France and Italy re-opened Saturday, three years after a horrific fire killed 39 people and closed it down, prompting a re-think of security on the Alps' motorways.
Italians generally welcomed the tunnel opening, but some 1,500 demonstrators gathered on the French side in Chamonix to condemn the pollution caused by the heavy truck traffic through the important Alpine road link.
Italian Interior Minister Claudio Scajola, joined by some 1,000 people dressed in their Sunday finest, walked several hundred meters (yards) into the tunnel to mark the opening, calling it a "historic day for Europe".
On the French side, regional officials attended the official ceremony, but other elected officials led by Chamonix mayor Michel Charlet protested against the resumption of truck traffic on the roadway, set for March 25.
In the Italian ski town of Courmayeur, one kilometer (half a mile) from the tunnel's Italian entrance, 30 environmental activists dressed in white also called for an end to truck traffic.
Earlier Saturday, an explosive device used to trigger avalanches was thrown at the tunnel's entrance, damaging a van and triggering an alarm.
Although the attack was not immediately claimed, authorities worried that protests could mar the tunnel's long-awaited re-opening.
"This is a move by people who believe that we should close an international link in th K-Pje of some abstract environmentalism," Scajola said of the attack during the official ceremony`Dp9ning the tunnel's Italian side.flour and margarine caught fire in the middle of the tunnel, filling the space with choking smoke and blocking traffic in both directions.
The fire quickly spread and gained in intensity, defying firefighters' efforts to battle it for more than two days.
The 39 killed either choked to death or were burned to death as they blindly tried to escape the tunnel on foot.
The victims of the disaster "are the factor that made all that is happening today possible and they paid dearly -- they paid with their lives," Scajola said, praising the tunnel's new security measures.
On the French side, two Greeks driving a car registered in Britai4 Were the first to reach the tunnel toll gate, beating a Frenchman who had been waiting since early morning to ensure he would be the first to pass through.
Drivers sounded their car horns as they crossed through the tunnel and waved to one another.
France and Italy have poured some 350 million euros (320 million dollars) into safety features for the 11.6-kilometer (7.2-mile) long tunnel, including an escape corridor under the roadway and a doubling of emergency shelters.
Earlier, victims' relatives gathered with authorities for a mid- morning prayer service in the middle of the tunnel, and later placed flowers and wreathes at the tunnel opening.
The tunnel's re-opening was pushed back for nearly one year, with France calling for more security tests while Italy lamented the loss that the tunnel's closure caused its export industry.
Rome has said the closure cost its economy 2.6 billion euros, as the tunnel was the country's single most important export route.
Truck traffic will be heavily regulated, authorities have said, in an attempt to ensure that the 1999 catastrophe will neve21a & repeated.
Only 1,100 trucks will be allowed to pass through the tunnel per day, less than half of the level allowed before the tunnel's closure in 1999.
The number of trucks in the tunnel at any given time will also be heavily regulated, forcing drivers to park at either entrance before being allowed to pass through.