Chirac fights shy of head-on clash with Le Pen
PARIS, April 24 (AFP)
By ruling out a televised face-to-face debate with presidential candidate Jean-Marie Le Pen, conservative incumbent Jacques Chirac has refused to bow to public opinion but has also deprived the old extreme right-wing warhorse of the perfect platform for his views.
Chirac was categorical on Monday in his refusal to debate with the National Front leader. At a rally in the western city of Rennes, he was cheered to the rafters when he declared: "In the face of intolerance and hate, no dealing is possible, no compromise is possible, no debate is possible."
He pointed out that he had always refused to strike a deal with Le Pen in previous presidential elections, even when it had meant certain defeat for himself, and he had no intention of conferring a spurious legitimacy on his extremist opponent now.
"I will not accept the banalisation of violence and hatred," he said. "Just as in the past I have never entered into an alliance with the National Front, whatever the political price there was to pay, so I will not now take part in a debate with its representative."
It was a decision which will disappoint not only Le Pen but also a large majority of the country, as an opinion poll published in the Le Parisien newspaper on Wednesday morning showed that 69 percent of the population wanted just such a debate.
Le Pen, for his part, was scathing of Chirac's refusal. Speaking on state-run television, he slammed the refusal as "an intolerable, inadmissable attack on the rules of democracy, and the fact that it comes from the president... is a scandal."
But there was support for Chirac from an unlikely quarter, Socialist former justice minister Robert Badinter, who arranged face-to-face election confrontations for the late Francois Mitterrand.
In an interview in Le Parisien, Badinter said: "A face-to-face meeting between Chirac and Le Pen would run the risk of degenerating, at Le Pen's instigation, into an undignified slanging match. The worst moments would be televised round the world and France's standing abroad has nothing to gain from that, anymore than the democratic debate has."
Le Pen, meanwhile, was having talks Wednesday with France's Broadcasting Authority to complain at the "partiality" of the way he has been portrayed on television and to press his demand for "the respect of moral and legal rules of equality which apply in such circumstances in order for the French people to be fairly informed."
There was every sign Wednesday that Chirac had no intention of underestimating his opponent, even though he has the endorsement of almost the entire political spectrum, still shaken by Le Pen's emergence as a serious threat in Sunday's first round and his boast that he can cause a second upset by actually winning.
While there have been indications that he should win by a landslide and many commentators are predicting that Le Pen will not poll more than 20 percent of the vote, Chirac is reported to be wary of complacency.
According to the left-leaning newspaper Liberation, Chirac believes that Le Pen is quite capable of attracting a staggering 35 percent of the vote and thus pave the way for a further bombshell in June's elections for the National Assembly.
"They won't be a stroll, they are going to be tough," a Chirac aide is quoted as saying, fearing that the National Front could cause a three- way run-off in between 150 and 200 constituencies.
However, the opinion poll in Le Parisien shows that respondents are still extremely wary of the Front. It is viewed as a racist organisation by 68 percent of the people, and as an outright threat to democracy by 76 percent.
On the street, a third day of anti-Front protests was expected across the country Wednesday, while overnight riot police fired teargas at youths demonstrating in the heart of Paris for the third night running.