EDF workers protest part-privatisation by Marc Burleigh = (PICTURES) = ATTENTION - UPDATES with small protests, Villepin quotes ///
PARIS, Oct 25
Workers at France's EDF electricity  utility were preparing on Tuesday a campaign of protests against  government plans to sell off part of the huge company, which Prime  Minister Dominique de Villepin defended as being "in the nation's  interest".
The powerful CGT and FO unions declared their EDF members would  begin hardline action from November 8 which would include strikes  and targeted electricity cuts. A big Paris demonstration is also  scheduled for November 19.
On Tuesday, small knots of EDF workers gathered in front of  government offices across the country to show their opposition to  the privatisation, which entails up to 15 percent of the state-owned  utility being sold off to raise around seven billion euros (8.4  billion dollars).
A union delegation handed a petition with 100,000 signatures  denouncing the flotation to the government and calling for a public  debate on EDF's future.
But Villepin, who announced the sell-off Monday, defended the  move as "a good decision for all of France because we have entered a  post-oil period."
High oil prices -- currently hovering around 60 dollars a barrel  -- and rising energy demands "mean that we need additional  investment that has to be financed," he told parliament.
EDF chief executive, Pierre Gadonneix, has said the company  would invest 40 billion euros (48 billion dollars) over five years  to boost electricity production, mainly in France, and to pay for  more acquisitions abroad.
The launch of the EDF share offer is to take place Friday, with  trading to begin by November 21, Economy Minister Thierry Breton  said.
The operation would value EDF at around 50 billion euros, with  the shares expected to be set at 24.40 euros each at least.
Workers at the utility have been allocated 15 percent of the  issue, while institutional investors will get 50 percent and private  investors 35 percent.
The flotation -- one of the biggest in Europe -- has been on the  cards for some time, as the government repositions EDF to cope with  competition in the energy sector brought in by EU rules.
EDF, Europe's biggest utility and the largest supplier of  civilian nuclear energy in the world, has been aggressively  expanding internationally in recent years, racking up nearly 20  billion euros in debt.
The company generates nearly three-quarters of its output in  France from nuclear power plants, of which 19 dot the country, and  it supplies 22 percent of the European Union's energy needs.
Unions, though, accuse Villepin's conservative government of  forcing through privatisation over the concerns of workers, who fear  job losses and a decline in the public service role of the big  enterprises.
"Job-cuts will likely happen. The reassurances of the government  and the management on this subject are only there to help us swallow  the medicine," one EDF technician, Hubert Hamon, told Le Parisien  newspaper.
Villepin sought to attentuate some of the fears by having his  government sign a contract with EDF which he said would ensure  moderate and universal electricity rates would stay, and poorer  families would not find themselves suddenly cut off if unable to pay  their energy bills.
The leader of the opposition Socialists, Francois Hollande, said  he would reverse the privatisation if his party came to power in  2007 elections by having the state buy up the shares issued.
Future financing of EDF and other state-owned enterprises would  then be funded through "a public financing company that would raise  capital on the markets," he said.