French police arrest three as hundreds try to destroy GM crops ATTENTION - ADDS further actions of protestors, Bove comments,  background, CORRECTS location in 2nd par ///
GREZET-CAVAGNAN, France, Sept 2, 2006
French police  arrested three people on Saturday after hundreds of protesters  including anti-globalisation icon Jose Bove tried to destroy a field  of genetically-modified maize.
Between 250 and 300 anti-GM protesters invaded the field in the  Lot-et-Garonne area of southwest France on Saturday afternoon.
But police arrived before they completed their task and arrested  three people following brief scuffles.
The protesters left the scene around an hour afterwards in order  to find where the three were being held and handed to authorities a  list of all protestors in what they described as a gesture of  solidarity.
The protestors "are ready to assume responsibility for their  actions, including in court and including in the face of proceedings  which could be serious," Bove told reporters. "I act with my face  uncovered, I take responsibility for my actions."
Bove, a leading figure within the anti-globalisation movement  who in the past has been imprisoned for similar actions, said the  crops were indeed genetically modified.
"We covered more than 400 hectares (990 acres) across the whole  of the southwest to determine whether they were GM. Here, we were  able to verify it," he said.
He added that organic farmers in the area had uncovered evidence  of "genetic pollution" and a "risk of contamination" up to several  hundred metres (yards) from the field.
Greenpeace militants had also targeted the same field in July,  marking a cross in the centre of a 30-metre (100-feet) circle,  leading to the arrest of six activists from the ecological  organisation, who were subsequently released.
The farmer concerned, Claude Menara, sued Greenpeace and forced  it in the same month to remove from its website a map showing GM  maize fields.
Bove came to international fame in 1999 when he was one of a  group who demolished a half-built McDonald's eatery in the southern  town of Millau.
Recently he has let it be known he is considering running for  the French presidency in 2007.