Arson blamed as new Paris fire kills 15 by Edouard Guihaire = (PICTURES) = ATTENTION -  ADDS Sarkozy comment, missing word in para three  ///
PARIS, Sept 4
Fifteen people, including at least three  children, were killed and more than 30 injured in an apartment block  fire in a southern Paris suburb early Sunday -- the third fatal fire  to hit the French capital in nine days.
The blaze broke out at around 1:00 am (2300 GMT Saturday) in the  hall of an 18-storey highrise containing 110 local authority flats  at L'Hay-les-Roses near Orly airport. The casualties -- including 11  who were seriously injured -- were all caused by smoke inhalation.
Police said the origin of the fire appeared to be criminal, and  late afternoon they announced that three girls aged between 16 and  18, two of whom lived in the building, were being held for  questioning. Police said they did not yet have evidence linking the  girls to starting the fire.
Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy told French television that  the fire was the result of a "criminal act" which needed to be  "punished as such".
He rejected suggestions by the local mayor that the blaze  was  the consequence of an "anti-social act."
Residents told investigators that vandals had been spotted  setting light to letter-boxes on the ground floor of the highrise.  Low-level arson attacks on cars and property are a regular problem  in run-down housing estates that surround many French cities.
Police raised the death toll from the fire to 15 on Sunday  evening.
Altogether 39 people have been killed in three fires in Paris in  little over a week, but authorities were at pains to play down any  similarity between the latest disaster and the fires on August 26  and 29 which killed 24 African immigrants in two dilapidated Paris  buildings.
"This is a block of flats. It's got nothing to do with the fires  in the Paris squats," said fire service spokesman Michel Cros.
Several African families were among the 500 people living in the  high-rise, which is in a working-class neighbourhood with no  particular reputation for trouble.
The blaze sent long flames licking up the outside of the  building, while smoke billowed up the stairwell -- fanned by the  airflow as residents opened their doors in panic. On a hot night  most windows were open.
Rescue workers found victims in the stairwell at the very top of  the building, while lower down residents who stayed in their  apartments and sealed their doors with material were safe.
"The smoke woke me. My bedroom was full of it. It stuck to the  skin, it was suffocating," said Jean, a first floor resident who  called the fire brigade. "There were people who wanted to hurl  themselves from their windows, but I told them not to -- that the  emergency services were coming."
"There was total panic, because we saw the bodies of people we  knew. Our neighbours -- a couple and their child, an entire family  -- are dead," said Florence Leclerc.
Some 160 fire-fighters were dispatched to the scene, and the  fire was brought under control after two hours. One young woman  resident gave birth in an ambulance brought to the scene.
Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin issued a statement  expressing his "condolences ... and the firm support of the state,"  while Social Cohesion Minister Jean-Louis Borloo left a ruling party  conference at La Baule on the Atlantic coast to be at the scene.
The question of safe and affordable housing for immigrants moved  to the top of the political agenda after the recent fires, which  followed an earlier conflagration in a city centre hotel in April  which killed 24 Africans.
Police were working on the theory that one fire, which killed 17  Malians near Austerlitz station on August 26, may have been set  deliberately, but last Monday's at a squat in the fashionable Marais  district was almost certainly an accident.
Both of those buildings were run-down condition and overcrowded,  and lacked safety equipment. By contrast the apartment bloc at  L'Hay-les-Roses appeared to have been properly maintained.
Thousands of protesters marched through Paris on Saturday  demanding urgent investment in low-cost housing for immigrants, and  condemning the forced evacuation of two Paris squats late last  week.
Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy ordered the evictions as a  safety measure, but the Socialist-controlled city council said no  long term alternative accommodation had been found for the 150  residents, many of whom are in France illegally.
He told French television he took full responsibility for the  evictions and did not regret them.