4,000 police drafted into French suburbs on riot anniversary ATTENTION - ADDS more details of bus attack ///
PARIS, Oct 27, 2006
Four thousand extra police were  being drafted into restive French suburbs late Friday, police said,  as a new armed attack on a bus near Paris was reported.
The move came on the one-year anniversary of the death of two  teenagers which sent a wave of urban riots surging through France,  sparking the country's most serious social crisis in 30 years.
"Four thousand police have been made available and will  reinforce local personnel in order to ensure the security of  citizens in sensitive districts," a national police headquarters  spokesman said.
They will be used "in accordance with events on the ground", the  spokesman said, adding that their presence will be "discreet but  reactive and effective."
Police also said two masked men attacked a bus outside the train  station at Blanc-Mesnil, in the violence-prone Seine Saint Denis  region, forcing the driver and passengers to get out then setting  the vehicle on fire, in the fifth such incident in 48 hours.
Police said the men were armed but did not specify the weapons  used. They had spread petrol in the vehicle then set it alight.
The bus company said the driver and the 15 or so passengers  aboard were not harmed.
After starting the fire, the men disengaged the vehicle's brake  and allowed it to roll down a hill where it crashed into a barrier  on a bend in the road, near to homes, according to witnesses.
Authorities are on high alert for a new flare-up of violence  after youth gangs, some carrying handguns, torched -- and in one  case hijacked -- three buses near Paris on Wednesday.
In Clichy-sous-Bois, the poor northeast Paris suburb where the  riots erupted on October 27, 2005, around 1,000 people, most of them  youngsters, filed quietly Friday morning past the spot where the two  boys died.
Zyed Benna, 17, and Bouna Traore, 15, both from immigrant  families of African descent, were electrocuted as they hid from a  police patrol in a power sub-station.
Riots broke out in Clichy that night, quickly spreading to  dozens of immigrant-populated suburbs in the Paris region and  beyond.
Night after night for three weeks, youth gangs clashed with  police, torching more than 10,000 cars and firebombing 300 buildings  in around 275 towns, until order was officially restored on November  17.
With the approach of the anniversary, police and local mayors  have warned that the conditions that led to the riots remain firmly  in place in the poor out-of-town neighbourhoods, plagued by  unemployment of 30 to 40 percent.
Nationwide, police were under orders to be vigilant but to keep  their presence low-key, to avoid encouraging confrontations with  youths, officers told AFP.
France's tough-talking Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy vowed  Thursday following the bus attacks that the government would  mobilize all the forces at its disposal for the security of public  transport users.