British ex-special forces soldier in anti-Iraq war protest by Phil Hazlewood
LONDON, March 16, 2006
A soldier who quit Britain's  special forces because he opposed military action in Iraq will be  one of the keynote speakers at an anti-war protest in London this  weekend, organisers revealed Thursday.
Ben Griffin will join established opponents of the US-led  invasion of March 20, 2003, plus family members of some of the 103  British service personnel who have been killed in the Gulf, the Stop  the War Coalition said.
The 28-year-old, who detailed his reasons for quitting the elite  22 Special Air Service to a British newspaper last Sunday, expanded  on his comments Thursday, calling on Britain to pull out its 8,000  troops immediately.
"Britain has let itself down by following America into this war.  They should withdraw from the coalition immediately," he told a  London news conference ahead of the protest Saturday in the British  capital.
Griffin, who in his two years in the SAS served in Iraq,  Afghanistan, Northern Ireland and Macedonia, told his commanding  officer of his moral objections last year and was discharged with an  exemplary service record.
Since publicly voicing his reasons for quitting, he said he had  received messages of support from serving British officers, many  agreeing with his view that the war was illegal, and sharing his  concern at Britain's perceived lack of influence over US policy in  Iraq.
"I think there is a growing feeling in the British Army of  disappointment that we're out there and that they feel let down by  the government," he said, stressing he had not signed up "to conduct  US foreign policy".
Griffin, from London, said he was concerned before being posted  to Iraq about the legality of the war and its justification that  former Iraqi president Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass  destruction, but followed orders and went.
"The conduct of the war, I thought, was wrong. A lot of things  were going wrong out there," he explained.
"My views became clearer and stronger while I was serving out  there until I reached a point when I found I couldn't separate those  views from my job."
Most were linked to the attitude and actions of US forces, whom  he said "failed to grasp" the difference between combat and  counter-insurgency operations after the end of formal hostilities.
They made little effort to minimise civilian casualties, did  not respect rules of engagement to fire only as a last resort and  treated the Iraqi people with contempt, he claimed.
They also ignored British advice, gained through harsh  experience in Northern Ireland, about not being heavy-handed, all of  which had led to the coalition, and specifically the United States,  losing Iraqi consent, the soldier stated.
"If you lose the consent of the Iraqi people, there's no way  this is going to be resolved until the US and Britain get out of  Iraq," he said.
Lindsey German, convenor of the Stop the War Coalition, told AFP  she expected up to 100,000 people at the demonstration, which  coincides with others around the world, including in Iraq.