Nationwide strikes test French PM's resolve on reforms by Marc Burleigh = (PICTURES) = ATTENTION - UPDATEs with new figures, demos ///
PARIS, Oct 4
A nationwide one-day strike gripped France  Tuesday, disrupting travel and business and dealing the first major  challenge from the street to the economic programme of Prime  Minister Dominique de Villepin.
Figures at midday showed a solid if unspectacular turn-out from  the public sector, with some 30 percent of railway staff and  teachers, 23 percent of electricity workers and between 15 and 30  percent of post office staff joining the stoppages.
Demonstrations were staged in cities from Marseille in the south  to Le Havre in the north, with the largest planned in Paris for the  afternoon. Unions were predicting an overall participation of more  than one million people in some 140 rallies.
Clashes broke out between police and protesters at a rally in  the Corsican port of Ajaccio, where tensions have been running high  over the planned privatisation of a state-owned ferry company.
Commuter transport problems in Paris were less serious than  feared, with only around a third of suburban trains running but  limited cancellations on metro and bus services.
The capital's transport authority last year put in place a  system of "guaranteed service" in case of strikes, which appeared to  be working.
The situation was worse in other cities such as Marseille and  Bordeaux, where most public transport was out of action.
There were delays of up to two hours at Paris's two airports and  nearly 400 short and medium haul flights were cancelled. No  disruptions were reported on long-haul flights.
The SNCF national rail company said that 40 percent of regional  services were up and running as well as 60 percent of high-speed TGV  intercity lines.
Some hospital staff and government office workers were also on  strike, but the private sector appeared mainly unaffected. Most  national newspapers failed to go on sale because of action by  print-workers.
Five of the country's biggest trade unions called the stoppage  to protest against the cautious reform policies of Villepin's  centre-right government and to push for pay rises.
Their main target was a new labour contract -- introduced  recently by government decree -- which makes it easier for companies  with fewer than 20 staff to hire and fire workers in their first two  years of employment.
The unions have been backed by a rare show of unity from the  country's left and far-left parties, still smarting from their  bitter internecine rift over the EU constitution which was rejected  in a referendum in May.
The Socialist, Green, Communist and Communist Revolutionary  League parties said in a statement that action was necessary "to  break with the reactionary and ultra-liberal (economic) logic of the  government."
The strike came at a sensitive time for Villepin, who has been  rocked onto the back foot by a crisis over the privatisation of the  National Corsica Mediterranean Company (SNCM) which serves Corsica  and north Africa from ports on the Mediterranean coast.
Plans to sell off the heavily-indebted concern sparked days of  violence in Corsica, a near-blockade of the island, and the  shut-down of the France's largest port of Marseille. Though action  was taken over the weekend to re-open communications, the situation  remained highly volatile.
A loyal ally of President Jacques Chirac who was appointed after  the May referndum debacle, Villepin, 51, has won cautious praise for  his first four months in office.
He has been rewarded with a gradual fall in the number of  jobless to under ten percent of the workforce, while last week saw  his poll ratings overtake for the first time those of Interior  Minister Nicolas Sarkozy -- the radical rightwinger who is also a  likely challenger in France's 2007 presidential race.
But he has been widely criticised for his handling of the SNCM  crisis, and commentators said that much will ride on his reaction to  the latest wave of social unrest.