Blair confident France will reject extremism
ATTENTION
ADDS more quotes ///
LONDON, April 22 (AFP) - British Prime Minister Tony Blair is confident the French people will reject extremism, his spokesman said Monday after the success of far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen in the first round of France's presidential elections.
"It is not for us to interfere in the French election, which is for the French people alone to decide," the spokesman told reporters, "but we trust the French people to reject extremism of any kind."
Blair also expressed sympathy for Socialist Prime Minister Lionel Jospin, who was knocked out of the presidential race by Le Pen and who subsequently announced he was quitting political life next month.
"The prime minister's view is that it is very sad for Lionel Jospin who, he believes, is an honest and decent man," he added. Blair was planning to call both Jospin and Chirac, the spokesman said.
British opposition leaders also expressed dismay at the first-round results, with Conservative leader Iain Duncan Smith calling it a wake- up call.
"It is a wake-up call on the need for economic and political reform, because the people need to feel included in the process, not excluded," Duncan Smith said, wishing Chirac "the very best of luck" in taking on the far-right leader in a May 5 run-off vote.
Liberal Democrat foreign affairs spokesman Menzies Campbell said: "Le Pen's success casts a shadow over France and the European Union.
"If he becomes president, he would undermine the values of tolerance and respect for human rights, which lie at the heart of the union.
"His rise makes it clear that the battle against right-wing extremism is never really over."
Downing Street said there was no point in comparing the political situation in France with that of Britain, where the far-right British National Party says it is well placed to win council seats at upcoming local elections.
The party fared poorly at last year's general election, but is hoping to make gains particularly in northern towns such as Oldham and Burnley, hit by race riots last summer.
"We do take the threat of the BNP seriously," said Labour Party chairman Charles Clarke. "We think it is a highly localised threat in the case of a small number of authorities, but in the cases where it is a threat, we are taking it extremely seriously."