North Korea opens London embassy amid protests by Andrew Gully (UPDATES with details, colour)
LONDON, April 30 (AFP)
North Korea opened its first embassy in London on Wednesday amid human rights protests and a call from Britain for Pyongyang to come clean on its controversial nuclear program.
Most guests refused to speak to journalists on their way into the new mission -- a 1930s semi-detached home in the west London surburb of Ealing, well away from the capital's chic embassy district.
Some 20 people were seen going inside for the mid-day reception, for which a tent had been erected in the back yard with a British opera singer on hand to provide musical entertainment.
Over the front door was the North Korean national emblem, with a brass plaque on the side that read: "Residence Office Embassy DPR Korea." The North Korean flag fluttered in the breeze.
On the street outside, a like number of protesters from Christian Solidarity Worldwide chanted slogans and waved placards denouncing North Korea's human rights record.
"We wish to register our profound concern at the mistreatment of North Koreans and to assure you that we will be watching the human rights situation in North Korea very closely," the group said in a letter which they dropped into the embassy's letter box.
Local MP Piara Khabra, who attended the opening, asked by reporters what he thought of the embassy being situated in Ealing, replied: "It does not matter where it is."
Earlier, Foreign Office Minister Bill Rammell said he would be asking his North Korean counterpart Choe Su-hon, who was in London for the opening, to better explain his country's suspected pursuit of nuclear weapons.
"When you are dealing with the North Korean regime, too often there is ambiguity, there is obfuscation, there are mixed messages," said Rammell ahead of the embassy opening.
"The time for that kind of conduct is over and we need some straight talking," he said.
If North Korea can prove it has no nuclear weapons, then "all sorts of things become possible" in terms of aid, assistance and meeting their security concerns, he said.
"It really is time now for actions not words," warned Rammell.
Britain established diplomatic relations with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea in December 2000, then opened an embassy in Pyongyang in July the following year.
Three North Korean officials were accredited to an office in London, pending the opening of the embassy in the home of North Korean charge d'affaires Ri Tae-gun.
Human rights activists said they would demonstrate outside the embassy to protest Pyongyang's prohibition of dissent.
Earlier Wednesday, North Korea hinted publicly that it was developing nuclear weapons, saying that US hostility had compelled it to opt for "a necessary deterrent force."
The statement, by a North Korean foreign ministry spokesman, was seen in the South Korean capital Seoul as a further indication that the Stalinist state possessed a nuclear arsenal.
It came as the United States rejected North Korea's offer to ditch its nuclear and missile programs for a huge economic and diplomatic payoff.
Secretary of State Colin Powell said the offer -- made at talks in Beijing last week and termed by Pyongyang as a "bold" move -- did not go in the right direction.