Corsica ferry workers vote to return to work ATTENTION - ADDS background, quotes, UPDATES vote numbers, time  for CGMF meeting///
MARSEILLE, France, Oct 13
Seamen at France's debt-ridden  SNCM ferry company voted by a large majority to return to work after  a 24-day strike Thursday, clearing the way for the state-owned  operator's privatisation.
Strikers meeting on board a ferry in the Mediterranean port of  Marseille voted by 519 to 73 to end their action in order to prevent  the National Corsica Mediterranean Company declaring bankruptcy.
The strike was called on September 20 to protest against  government plans to sell the SNCM to private investors.
It has cost the company 1.5 million euros (1.8 million dollars)  per week, triggered nationalist-related violence on the island of  Corsica, and led to the hijacking by workers of a passenger ship on  September 27 with its storming the next day by helicopter-borne  commandos.
Sympathy strikes also shut down the port of Marseille --  France's largest -- for two weeks and led to severe disruption on  the city's transport system.
SNCM management -- which posted a deficit of 29.7 million euros  in 2004 -- had warned that they would officially declare the company  bankrupt at the end of this week unless work resumed.
Government ministers congratulated seamen on their decision to  call off the strike, saying it had saved the company from collapse  with the loss of all 2,400 jobs.
"It is good news for the company, but also for the whole of the  region, for Marseille and for Corsica," said Prime Minister de  Villepin. "We are now in a position to discern the future in a god  light."
"I confirm that the rescue plan will be put into operation as  planned," said Finance Minister Thierry Breton. "The quicker  activity resumes, the further the risk of bankruptcy will recede."
But Jean-Paul Israel, secretary general of the seamen's branch  of the General Labour Confederation (CGT), warned that tempers were  still running high.
"The fight does not stop there. It is tough on the workers, but  I wish the private investors all the best -- because the staff  hasn't given up," he said.
Under a revised privatisation package the government has agreed  to retain 25 percent of the SNCM, with private investment firm  Butler Capital Partners and transport company Connex sharing 66  percent, and staff taking nine percent.
Villepin has also promised that 400 predicted job-cuts will come  through voluntary redundancies and early retirement.
The state body that controls the SNCM -- the General Maritime  and Financial Company (CGMF) -- was to meet in Paris Friday where it  was expected to agree a financial lifeline to tide it through to the  privatisation.
The 30-year-old SNCM owns 10 ships which service routes from  mainland France to Corsica and north Africa. It has been in  financial freefall thanks to growing competition from cheaper  private operators and repeated strikes.
The government, which has bailed out the SNCM on numerous  occasions, is prevented by EU competition rules from injecting more  capital except in the context of a sell-off.