French philosophers back teacher in hiding after Islam article
PARIS, Oct 2, 2006
France's best-known philosophers  published an open letter in Le Monde newspaper Monday expressing  support for Robert Redeker, the teacher who is in hiding after  receiving death threats for an article attacking Islam.
The writers -- who include Bernard-Henri Levy, Alain  Finkielkraut and Andre Glucksmann -- urged the French state to  defray Redeker's expenses while he is under threat "just as the  English authorities did not hesitate to do during the Rushdie  affair."
Redeker, a 52 year-old father of three and philosophy teacher at  a lycee near Toulouse, is receiving round-the-clock police  protection and changing address every two days after receiving death  threats for his September 19 article in the right-wing daily Le  Figaro.
In it he described the Koran as a "book of extraordinary  violence" and Islam as "a religion which ... exalts violence and  hate".
"It is very sad. I exercised a constitutional right, and I am  punished for it -- here in the heart of the republic," Redeker was  quoted as saying in the open letter.
"The authorities oblige me to keep moving. I am homeless. As a  result I am in a desperate financial situation, as all the costs are  at my expense," he was quoted as saying.
Redeker's supporters compared him to British writer Salman  Rushie, "hounded for 15 years across the planet" over his book "The  Satanic Verses", as well as to Dutch film-maker Theo Van Gogh,  killed "like a dog" in Amsterdam in 2004.
"A handful of fanatics brandishes alleged religious laws to  jeopardise our most basic freedoms. To which threats are now added  the murmurings audible across Europe about the 'provocations' we  must avoid in order not to antagonise these supposed foreign  sensibilities," the writers said.
"Times are getting tough in Europe. Now is not the moment for  cowardice," they said.
Redeker, who has published several books of philosophy, wrote  his article in reaction to the fury unleashed in Muslim countries by  Pope Benedict XVI's references to Islam in an address in Germany two  weeks ago.
Likening Islam to communism, Redeker said that "violence and  intimidation are the methods used by an expansionist ideology ... to  impose its leaden cloak on the world".
He also compared the Prophet Mohammed unfavourably to Jesus  Christ, describing the founder of Christianity as a "master of love"  and the founder of Islam as a "master of hate".