French police free Corsica port, Marseille oil terminals from  strikers ATTENTION - RECASTS, UPDATES with Marseille dock workers on  strike, air traffic back to normal, ADDS quotes ///
AJACCIO, France, Oct 1
Security forces moved in early  Saturday to end blockades by strikers at the Corsican port of  Ajaccio and two oil terminals in Marseille, amid a bitter dispute  over the privatisation of a state-owned ferry company.
"Our objective is to allow free movement of traffic in the port  of Ajaccio, initially to allow the very large number of tourists  stuck in Corsica to leave," the island's chief administrator,  Pierre-Rene Lemas, said.
"There are almost 15,000 people stuck in Corsica, including  women and children, who we are urgently trying to house," Lemas told  reporters.
Backed by two armoured vehicles, around 150 riot and  paramilitary police removed the trucks and dustbins that blocked the  access ramp to the only ship in Ajaccio, according to an AFP  reporter at the scene.
There was no resistance from 15 or so strikers from the National  Corsica Mediterranean Company (SNCM) who have picketed the site  since four leaders of the pro-nationalist Union of Corsican Workers  (STC) were arrested on Wednesday after hijacking an SNCM ship.
The four were released late Friday in a possible sign of  appeasement to demonstrators who had thronged the streets of  Ajaccio.
"The aim of the operation is to retake the port of Ajaccio and  to hold it as long as necessary," Corsica's chief of police,  Christian Lambert, told AFP.
Traffic was also back to normal Saturday at the airports of  Ajaccio and Bastia after delays and cancellations caused when the  STC called groundstaff out on strike.
However, officials in the port of Bastia said one ship remained  blocked there.
In the southern mainland port of Marseille, security forces also  ended a blockade of two oil terminals by workers striking in  sympathy with the SNCM employees, officials said.
"The operation took place at 6:30 am without incident," the  local administration said in a statement. "The entrances will be  guarded to ensure free movement."
Marseille dock workers immediately announced a strike Saturday  to demand the removal of the security forces from the port.
The 11-day old labour dispute over government plans to sell-off  the debt-ridden SNCM ferry company has taken on dangerous  nationalist overtones on Corsica, an island that has been prey to  separatist violence for some 30 years.
In the biggest crisis to hit his four-month old administration,  Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin has been trying to negotiate  the sale of the SNCM to private investment firm Butler Capital  Partners -- provoking outrage from a strongly militant labour  force.
Plagued by huge debts, regular strikes and growing competition  from cheaper private operators, the SNCM faces imminent bankruptcy  unless it finds an outside buyer. The government is banned by EU  rules from bailing it out yet again.
In a gesture to the strikers Thursday, Villepin suggested a new  sell-off deal under which the state would keep 25 percent of the  company. Butler would take over 70 percent and later sell 30 percent  to Connex, the transport subsidiary of French utilities services  group Veolia Environnement.
SNCM workers would control the remaining five percent of the  stock. But unions said the offer did not go far enough.
The original Butler takeover plan foresaw the loss of up to 400  jobs at SNCM, as well as the injection of 113 million euros (136  million dollars) in state aid.