Belgium mourns youth killed for digital music player by Philippe Siuberski =(PICTURE)= ATTENTION - ADDS details, quotes ///
BRUSSELS, April 20, 2006
Emotions ran high on Thursday  at the funeral of a Belgian teenager killed last week at a station  in central Brussels for his digital music player in a murder that  has deeply shocked the country and stoked safety concerns.
Friends and family paid their respects to Joe Van Holsbeeck, 17,  who was stabbed to death by two young men trying to steal his MP3  player as he waited for friends at the Gare Centrale in Brussels.
The brutal killing has sparked a wave of grief and anger in  Belgium, with politicians lining up to condemn the murder and local  press giving it extensive coverage.
About 50 fellow boy scouts attended the funeral in the youth's  hometown of Haren, on the outskirts of Brussels, and six of them  bore their friend's casket into the church for the ceremony.
"We are all in shock at the brutal death of Joe," the parish  priest said, his voice breaking with emotion.
At the family's request, politicians stayed away from the  ceremony. Some public figures, such as the royal couple, chose to  pay their respects with floral bouquets.
The killers are still at large and police have circulated  photo-fits in the hope of tracking them down.
The murder unleashed a wave of emotion unlike any the country  has seen since the case of paedophile Marc Dutroux broke 10 years  ago.
"I've got a child of the same age. I really hope they get the  killers," said Carmen Garcia, who came to the funeral from a  neighbouring town.
A march has been organised through Brussels on Sunday in Van  Holsbeeck's honour. But his parents have asked for the killing,  which has come six months ahead of municipal and legislative  elections, not be turned into a wider political issue.
The family has also been eager for the murder not to fuel  xenophobic fears since the killers appear in security camera images  to be of North African origin.
"Don't ask me to hate all Arabs. The youths that killed my son  are thugs but don't generalise," Joe's mother said in an interview  with Belgian newspaper La Derniere-Heure.
A Moroccan student who attended the funeral, Sahih Tewfik, said  that he was "deeply touched" by the family's stance "especially  because the killers are assumed to probably be Moroccan".
In recent months, Flemish far-right party Vlaams Belang has been  leading a campaign to increase safety, offering supporters alarm  systems. A poll last month found that the party could win slightly  more than a quarter of the vote in Belgium's northern Flanders  region.
More mainstream parties are keeping a cautious eye on Sunday's  march, which organisers close to the victim have dubbed "a peaceful  protest for the freedom to go around in safety".
Memories are still vivid in Belgium's political class of a march  in 1996 of 300,000 people, when public outrage in the wake of the  Dutroux case focused on the authorities and eventually led to a  reform of the legal system.
Nevertheless, party representatives are planning to join the  demonstration.