Arrested neo-Nazis planned several attacks: German prosecutors
(ADDS details, reactions, INCORPORATES Germany-crime-extremism)
KARLSRUHE, Germany, Sept 12 (AFP)
A group of neo-Nazis arrested this week in southern Germany were planning to carry out a number of attacks including bombing a new Jewish cultural centre in Munich, prosecutors said on Friday.
"There is evidence that the accused had several attack targets in their sights," said Frauke-Katrin Scheuten, a spokeswoman for the federal prosecutors office in the southwestern city of Karlsruhe.
She confirmed reports the group was suspected of planning to bomb the Jewish cultural centre on November 9, when its foundation stone is laid in a ceremony involving President Johannes Rau and German Jewish community head Paul Spiegel.
"The citizens of Bavaria are horrified by these acts of madness that were being planned," state premier Edmund Stoiber said, demanding tough sentences for those found guilty.
In total nine suspected neo-Nazis were involved, Scheutens said, adding that a number of arrest warrants had been issued on Friday.
On Wednesday Munich police arrested six people, four of them suspected neo-Nazis, and seized large quantities of explosives, arms and ammunition.
The five men and one woman were arrested in raids in Bavaria, of which Munich is the capital, and the northeast states of Brandenburg and Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania on suspicion of plotting a crime with explosives.
They said four of the suspects were linked to skinhead groups and some had previously served time in jail for violent crimes.
The police seized 14 kilogrammes (31 pounds) of "suspect explosive material", including at least 1.7 kilogrammes of TNT, weapons, two hand grenades, ammunition, files and computer discs.
"A new dimension in terrorism was being planned," said Charlotte Knobloch, the president of Munich's Jewish community.
"Sixty-five years after the destruction of the main synogogue by the Nazis, neo-Nazis are again trying to destroy Jewish life in Munich."
Munich mayor Christian Ude was also stunned by the news. "It is shocking to see that there are still sick minds with so much criminal energy," he said.