Irish Justice Minister attacks Sinn Fein campaign for Irish  unity
DUBLIN, Sept 20, 2005
A Sinn Fein campaign for Irish  unity was strongly attacked on Tuesday by Justice Minister Michael  McDowell who described it as a betrayal of republicanism that was  designed to induce a state of fear in Protestant Unionists in  Northern Ireland.
Sinn Fein, the political wing of the Irish Republican Army, is  staging rallies aimed at getting the Irish government to initiate a  process and bring forward a green paper discussion paper on  unification of the two parts of the island.
McDowell, who is a member of the Progressive Democrats junior  partner in Prime Minister Bertie Ahern's ruling coalition, says that  under the Good Friday peace deal Irish unity is subject "to the  agreement and consent" of a majority of the people of Northern  Ireland.
He said "putting the aggressive and futile pursuit of political  unification" before the immediate imperative of beginning the  process of reconciling the two communities is a "betrayal of the  values and vision" of genuine Irish republicanism.
"Put bluntly, 'making partition history' is a recipe for civil  war and sectarian strife unless it is preceded by a sustained and  successful campaign of 'making sectarianism and social and political  segregation history'.
"It is nothing less than an attempt to induce a state of crisis  and fear in the hearts of those who should, instead, be the focus of  the project of reconciliation."
He said no-one has a mandate from history to to polarise, to  segregate, or to subjugate any community in Ireland in the name of  the Irish republic.
"If, as we do, the people of this state aspire to unite the  island and people of Ireland in a shared political future, there is  only one way to achieve that goal which is to follow the path of  reconciliation - not the path of subjugation."
McDowell said reconciling the island's two communities,  represented by the orange and green in the Irish flag, is not for  the faint-hearted, not for the rabble-rouser, not for avengers, and  not for hate-mongers.
"Reconciliation is a vocation that calls for civic virtues that  are not to be found in the actions, words, tactics and strategies of  the Provisional (Sinn Fein/IRA) movement," he said.