Major German union continues wave of warning strikes by Lorne Cook
ATTENTION
ADDS details, background ///
BERLIN, April 8 (AFP) - Germany's powerful IG Metall union called Monday on tens of thousands of workers to hold warning strikes throughout Germany to protest for higher wages.
In the southern state of Bavaria, the engineering and autoworkers union urged 8,000 employees at 18 firms to take part in the growing wave of strikes.
Similar actions were set for firms in the eastern state of Berlin, the nothern states of Hamburg and Schleswig-Holstein, and the western states of Hesse and Saarland.
Hundreds stopped work in Wolgast and Stralsund in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania in the north and around 1,500 others walked off the job at factories in the eastern state of Thuringia, the union said.
500 more in Opel-Werk's Eisenach factory took part in stoppages overnight, it said.
IG Metall has called on about 30,000 workers at 40 companies, including DaimlerChrysler in the southwest state of Baden-Wuertemberg, to strike on Monday.
Union chief Klaus Zwickel told Bild newspaper Monday that the protest stoppages would gather momentum this week with 50,000 to 60,000 employees taking part in the warning strikes nation-wide each day.
Last week, IG Metall handed employers an ultimatum to resolve the pay issue by April 22 or face strikes around the country.
IG Metall, which has 2.8 million members across Germany, is campaigning for a 6.5-percent pay increase for the sector's 3.6 million workers this year, a demand employers say is unreasonable given the current recession.
Employers are offering far more modest pay rises of two percent.
The union began calling the regional warning strikes late last month. Thousands of workers have already taken part.
Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder, who faces an election in September and whose Social Democrats have traditionally been close to the unions, has warned IG Metall against taking a hard line in the current wage round as it could crush the budding German economic recovery.
The wage talks will be the main focus of a three-day IG Metall conference starting Monday in the eastern city of Magdeburg.
Schroeder was expected to hold talks there later Monday with union leaders, who also want to approve a paper detailing their position on the general election. The document is reported to be highly critical of his government.
The wage dispute has been extremely uncomfortable for Schroeder, who faces a strong challenge in September's general election from conservative Bavarian premier Edmund Stoiber.
The Social Democrats have traditionally enjoyed robust union support and Schroeder cannot afford to lose their backing in the current electoral campaign.
But at the same time he cannot allow major wage hikes to jeopardize economic growth and raise the jobless rate, currently at more than 10 percent.