Arbitration effort fails in German public workers' strike
STUTTGART, Germany
Arbitrators' efforts to help end a six-week strike by public workers in southwestern Germany failed Monday when negotiators rejected their proposal for solving the dispute over working hours.
The strike in Baden-Wuerttemberg state is part of a wider dispute that has seen the ver.di union stage rolling strikes in most German regions _ the biggest public service stoppage in 14 years.
Municipal authorities and the union brought in two arbitrators last week after failing to find a deal on their own. However, they rejected a proposal by arbitrators that would have extended employees' working weeks depending on their qualifications.
Union representatives "could not agree to the extension of working time," said ver.di's chief negotiator, Alfred Wohlfart.
Local authorities have been pressing some employees to work 40 hours a week, compared with 38 1/2 hours at present, without extra pay. The union argues that lengthening hours would destroy jobs.
The union said the arbitrators' proposal would have resulted in an average work week of some 39.1 hours _ which, Wohlfart argued, would have led to 3,500 jobs being lost.
Employers say more work and greater flexibility are needed given that government budgets are tight.
"Citizens expect an immediate end to the strike," said Mannheim Mayor Gerhard Widder, the chief negotiator for employers. He called for the two sides to use the arbitrators' proposal as a basis for further talks.
Wohlfart said ver.di would continue its strike campaign, but insisted that "we have an absolute interest" in a settlement. He did not say when talks might resume.
The dispute has left mounds of garbage piled up in some places, and has forced hospitals to cancel non-urgent operations. Still, not all workers have walked out simultaneously, limiting disruption, and deals have been reached to end strikes in two other regions.
In Stuttgart, authorities already have brought in private firms to clear garbage. The chief negotiator for state governments warned that the dispute could trigger more such moves.
"If (the union) continues to insist on short working time, there will be more privatization," Hartmut Moellring told N24 television.
In a separate dispute over pay and conditions, doctors at German public hospitals on Monday extended a strike they had started last week.
The Marburger Bund doctors' union is seeking an increase of up to 30 percent in basic wages for 22,000 doctors at university and state hospitals, along with better-regulated working hours and full overtime payments.
It called on doctors at 15 clinics across Germany to walk out Monday.
Health Minister Ulla Schmidt rejected their demand for much higher wages as unrealistic, asking in an ARD television interview: "Where are they supposed to come from?"