Union rally draws hundreds of thousands to Rome to protest labor reform and terrorist slaying, organizers predict 2 million participants
ROME (AP)
With many waving Communist flags, hundreds of thousands of demonstrators streamed into Rome Saturday, answering union leaders' calls to protest Premier Silvio Berlusconi's efforts to make it to easier to fire workers, as well as to denounce the terrorist slaying of a government adviser on labor reform.
Union leaders said it appeared that at least 2 million people were pouring into the Italian capital for the rally, but police cautioned that it was too soon to give a crowd count.
However, with many last-minute participants still swelling the crowd, aerial camera views indicated that several hundreds of thousands had arrived by early afternoon.
The boulevard lining the Tiber was a sea of red caps and swirling red Communist flags and crimson union banners as participants marched toward the rallying point in Circus Maximus, the ancient Roman open space for entertainment. The boulevard leading from the Colosseum to Circus Maximus was also jammed by protesters.
Organizers charted scores of buses, trains, two ships and three planes to bring supporters to Rome.
The Communist-backed CGIL labor confederation had originally planned concerts after a day of pep talks by union leaders, but the entertainment was canceled in a sign of respect for Marco Biagi, the economist and government consultant who was gunned down Tuesday night in Bologna in an attack claimed by the Red Brigades, a leftist group which had terrorized the country with assassinations and kidnappings in the 1970s and 1980s.
Biagi, through his role as a chief drafter of the legislation aimed at ending Italy's system of virtual lifetime employment, was the union's opponent. But organizers declared that the rally would also denounce the terrorist attack as an attack on democracy.
Participants bowed their heads when the rally began with a minute of silence in respect for Biagi.
CGIL leader Sergio Cofferati told the crowd that the killing was carried out just when ``workers and citizens were mobilizing to claim their legitimate rights.''
Many politicians from the center and left joined the rally.
Said former Premier Massimo D'Alema, a leader of the Democratic Left, a former Communist party: ``We're here to say no to terrorism.''
On Friday night, Berlusconi, in a recorded messaged broadcast on state TV and the media magnate's private TV networks, reiterated his government's resolve to push the reform through Parliament. Opposition politicians immediately accused Berlusconi of taking advantage of Biagi's slaying to push his agenda, and noted the televised appeal came on the eve of the protest.
Security Saturday was heavy, and the rally began peacefully.
About a dozen extra police were posted outside Berlusconi's residence about a kilometer (half-mile) from the rallying point. A police helicopter circled over Circus Maximus, and scores of police lined an ancient Roman bridge spanning the Tiber near the crowd.
Romans and tourists were forced to walk for kilometers (miles) as most bus runs through the center were scrapped or shortened.
The drive to liberalize labor laws had split the country, and days before the attack, Italy's largest, leftist union confederation had invited citizens to rally in Rome against the change.
When Berlusconi first was premier in 1994, he backed off on pension reform after mass protests by workers in the streets.
This time, Italy's main labor confederations have called for a general strike in April to protest the labor reform.
The conservative premier has insisted that Italy's rigid employment system must be loosened in order to create more jobs so businesses can stay competitive. Many employers have long complained that it is so hard to fire workers in Italy that they are discouraged from taking on new employees when demand increases for their products or services because it will almost be impossible to let them go later.
