Vivendi faces some dissatisfied shareholders at annual meeting in Paris
PARIS (AP)
Media giant Vivendi Universal reported improved first-quarter results, but the good news wasn't likely to help chief Jean-Marie Messier at the company's annual meeting Wednesday, where protesters and shareholders alike demanded his resignation.
Riot police stood guard as shareholders walked through a crowd of angry demonstrators from Canal Plus, Vivendi's pay television unit, furious at Messier's sacking of their former top executive.
Protesters wore T-shirts that said ``Messier mega liar,'' and many shareholders joined in chants of, ``Messier resign,'' frustrated at the company's falling share price, huge 2001 net loss, and unclear strategy.
``Messier has to go. That's why we're here,'' said shareholder Yves Viet, a businessman, as he walked into the meeting at Paris' Zenith theater.
On April 16, Messier fired Canal Plus chairman Pierre Lescure, saying the loss-making company needed new management to lift it from a debt of dlrs 4.45 billion.
The dismissal drew rowdy protests from Canal Plus employees and questions from French politicians about how Lescure, a stalwart against Hollywood domination of the film industry, had been brusquely pushed aside.
Announcing first-quarter results Wednesday, Vivendi said that operating profit at its media and telecommunications business grew 27 percent on a pro-forma basis to 436 million euros in the first quarter of the year from 343 million euros (about dlrs 305 million).
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization rose to 1.17 billion euros (dlrs 1.04 billion) from 1.01 billion euros (dlrs 898 million) on a pro-forma basis, slightly ahead of expectations.
Revenue grew 12 percent pro-forma to 7.11 billion euros (dlrs 6.32 billion). Excluding revenue from the trade-and-health publishing activities sold last week, the figure was 6.8 billion euros (dlrs 6.05 billion), Vivendi said.
Revenue growth was driven by the U.S. movie business, with Universal Studios revenue up 24 percent, and by telecom operations. The expected decrease in music was kept in check. Music revenue was down 6 percent, while some observers had predicted a decline of up to 15 percent.
In a statement, Messier said that gains will be driven in the future by those units which currently contribute negatively to Vivendi's cash-flow, namely pay-TV group Canal Plus and Internet operations.
``We have recently changed Canal Plus' management,'' Messier said. ``We fully understood that this would cause a period of disruption, but are confident that all of our constituencies will soon recognize that this vital step will help create benefits for all''.
Messier is likely to face tough questions on Vivendi's strategy at Wednesday evening's meeting.
Vivendi's share price has fallen around 70 percent in the past two years as investors _ once impressed with Messier's capacity to pull off acquisitions such as Seagram and educational publisher Houghton Mifflin _ have grown nervous about his ability to meld together the company's diverse businesses and reduce its borrowings.
Le Monde newspaper reported in its Wednesday edition that a French minority shareholders body will ask a French court to appoint an expert to look into the way communications giant Vivendi Universal's board of directors operates.
The newspaper said that Colette Neuville, president of the shareholders' group ADAM, said the complaint would be filed with a French court next month.
``This company has posted huge losses. But we don't know how we got there,'' Le Monde quoted Neuville as saying.