Poles dismiss Jewish group's protest against shopping center near Auschwitz camp
WARSAW, Poland (AP)
In new controversy over remembering the victims of the Auschwitz death camp, Polish officials on Monday rejected a Jewish group's protest at plans for a shopping center in a former tannery where some camp inmates worked and died.
Commenting on a letter by Rabbi Abraham Cooper of the Los Angeles-based Simon Wiesenthal Center to Poland's Prime Minister Leszek Miller, officials in Oswiecim, the southern Polish city of 50,000 where the Nazis built the camp, dismissed the accusations as unreasonable.
``If we adopted the Rabbi's rationale we would have to close down the whole Oswiecim area, where many prisoners were forced to work, suffered and got killed,'' Jerzy Wroblewski, the head of the Auschwitz State Museum said.
``I strongly support commemorating places of mass extermination, but within reasonable limits,'' Wroblewski said. ``The place is a mile away from the proper camp where extermination took place.''
The city's mayor, Jozef Krawczyk also said the demands were unacceptable and a spokesman for the Warsaw government, Michal Tober, said the position taken by city and museum authorities was ``rational.''
In his letter dated Thursday, Cooper argued that building shops on the premises ``would desecrate the memory of the Holocaust victims.'' He urged Polish leaders to ``stop local authorities and their business allies from turning a quick profit on the ashes of the Holocaust victims.''
About 1.5 million people, mostly Jews from around Europe, were killed between 1940 and 1945 in the Auschwitz-Birkenau gas chambers or died from disease, malnutrition and forced labor. Historians say many of about 1,000 prisoners who worked in the tannery died there.
Last year, a disco located in the building was closed after months of protests from international Jewish groups, who argued it showed a lack of respect for the victims.
The International Auschwitz Council, which supervises the museum and includes representatives of international Jewish communities, will meet in April to discuss the current dispute, Wroblewski said.
He said council members didn't object to the planned shopping center when the project was proposed last year. Still, Jewish groups have long opposed allowing businesses to operate on or near Auschwitz-related sites.
The site of the camp currently is protected by a 100-meter-wide (100-yard-wide) buffer zone in which commercial activities are prohibited.
Over the past few years, Jewish organizations have protested other plans to build a mini-mall across from the Auschwitz museum. The project was later limited to a scaled-down visitors center, part of which opened last year.
__
On the Web:
Simon Wiesenthal Center: www.wiesenthal.com
Auschwitz Museum: www.auschwitz-muzeum.oswiecim.pl