Animal rights campaigners may have tried to fire-bomb private home, police say
LONDON
Police said Tuesday that an attempt to fire-bomb a private home in Reading, west of London, is believed to have been the work of animal-rights extremists, and five people have been arrested.
News reports said the occupants of the house are reported to have links with Huntingdon Life Sciences, a company that tests medical products on animals and has been targeted by animal rights groups in the past in Britain and the United States.
A spokeswoman for Thames Valley Police said officers "are looking at this from an animal rights point of view."
But she said the five people arrested have not so far indicated they are linked to any grouping.
Officers were called on Sunday night to the house after the owner reported suspicious activity outside.
A device was found in the driveway and later disarmed. During a search of the area, a second suspected device was found nearby on Monday morning.
A 39-year-old man arrested on Monday morning was due to appear before Reading magistrates Tuesday. Four other people were arrested Monday night.
Extremists have used intimidation and violence to shut down British businesses that provide animals for experiments and to hamper the work of institutions that conduct animal testing.
In 2001 masked men with baseball bats attacked the manager of Huntingdon Life Sciences at his home north of London. The company ceased trading on the London Stock Exchange the following year.
Last year, Cambridge University abandoned plans to build Europe's largest primate research lab because of spiraling costs, including the expense of protecting the center from animal rights activists, who staged regular demonstrations at the site.
Another lab currently under construction at Oxford University, which plans to do experiments on animals, has also been the focus of protests by animal rights activists.
Animal rights groups say the medical tests are unnecessarily cruel, while scientists argue they're crucial for advances that could save many human lives.