Unions protest as Greece targets permanent public-sector jobs
THESSALONIKI, Greece
More than 10,000 of trade unionists and other protesters rallied in this northern Greek city, as Prime Minister Costas Caramanlis announced public servants will eventually lose their permanent job status.
"Public utilities will operate under a new framework. Reform is vital for the national economy," Caramanlis said in an annual speech on the Greek economy _ which is troubled by a high budget deficit and a massive bill for last year's Athens Olympics.
The measure could impact tens of thousands of workers, handed jobs-for-life at public utilities and services before many state enterprises were privatized or deregulated.
Caramanlis also announced plans to cut defense spending from 4.1 percent of gross domestic product between 1999 and 2003, to "about 2.9 percent" in 2005-2006.
The protesters _ who included pensioners and anti-globalization activists who traveled from Athens _ chanted "resistance is the only road," as 3,000 police cordoned off streets around the Thessaloniki International Trade Fair, where Caramanlis spoke Saturday.
A small group of demonstrators attacked property near the city's university building, causing minor damage. The youths threw gasoline bombs and rocks at police, set fire to trash bins and burned a police motorcycle. There were no immediate reports of arrests or injuries.
Union leaders and opposition politicians immediately condemned Caramanlis' planned reforms.
"There will be firings, mark my words," said Christos Polyzogopoulos, head of Greece's union umbrella group GSEE. "We must change this policy which creates deficits and social inequality."
Nikos Athanasakis, a spokesman for the opposition Socialist party added: "Mr. Caramanlis ... put on another display of irresponsibility, deception and misguided policies."
Caramanlis' 18-month-old conservative government is struggling to reduce Greece's budget deficit from 6.1 percent of gross domestic product last year to below the 3 percent cap set by the European Union.
It also faces an ever-growing bill for the Athens Olympics, now expected to reach euro13 billion (US$16 billion).
The conservatives are hoping to extend an agreement negotiated in May to downsize the former state telecoms monopoly, OTE, to other utilities.
"It's our choice to adopt a strategy of bold reforms," Caramanlis said. "Other nations which followed this course _ Denmark, Finland, Ireland _ achieved remarkable results."
Caramanlis' speech was made amid a mood of public uncertainty.
Some 59 percent of Greeks predict worse economic developments in the coming year, while 63 percent expect a deterioration in the employment situation, according to the results of an EU-wide survey released this week.
But the prime minister, who turns 49 Wednesday, remains popular and enjoys a four-point advantage in opinion polls over the main opposition Socialists _ compared with his five-point election victory in March 2004.