EU officials dismiss reports Poland, Spain to lose aid if they block new constitution
BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP)
Top European officials dismissed reports Monday that France and Germany were threatening to cut European Union aid to Poland and Spain if they continue to insist on major changes to a draft EU constitution.
European Commission President Romano Prodi said ``there was no blackmail'' as suggested in several European media reports which said both France and Germany would cut off billions in EU aid payments to the two countries if they block the new charter.
Prodi made the remarks after holding a two-hour meeting with Polish Prime Minister Leszek Miller at EU headquarters, who agreed with Prodi saying the reports were false.
``I did not hear any proposals of the kind,'' Miller said. ``Such speculation going on ... is in a way an offense to the dignity of the European Union as a whole.''
Spain and Poland strongly oppose proposals in the draft text which would change the number of votes allocated to member nations.
The two want to retain a complicated voting-rights formula adopted under the Nice Treaty in 2000 which gave them almost as many votes as Germany, France and Britain.
The constitutional draft would replace that with a system in which voting powers are more closely linked to population size. This is supported by Germany, France, Italy and Britain.
Spanish newspaper El Pais reported Sunday that at a weekend EU summit in Rome, which launched final negotiations on a first-ever EU constitution, French President Jacques Chirac had specified there was a ``clear link'' between the dispute on voting rights and future EU aid distribution. The paper said German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder had made similar remarks.
But German Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer also denied the reports. ``I can only warn of constructing this linkage,'' he told reporters in Berlin.
Under the draft mechanism Spain and Poland, considered medium-sized countries, would lose much of their ability to form a blocking minority in EU decision-making once the bloc expands next year to take in 10 new members.   (cb)