Stormy debate promised as Spanish Parliament receives new Catalan charter
MADRID, Spain
Catalan politicians Wednesday presented Spain's Parliament with a potentially explosive new charter that describes their wealthy northeastern region as "a nation."
The charter, which seeks to redefine Catalonia's relationship with central government, has seriously split political parties and voters over its implications for the unity of the country.
Ernest Benach, president of the regional Catalan parliament, presented the charter in the Congress registry office. As he entered, about 20 protesters outside held up small posters that read, "Spain R.I.P." They chanted "Spain is indivisible" and "Catalonia is Spain."
Catalonia's semiautonomous parliament, one of 17 in Spain, approved the statute last Friday with 120 votes in favor and just 15 votes of the right-wing Popular Party against, ending months of debate.
"Catalonia is a nation," according to the first article in the 52-page document. "Catalonia considers Spain a many-nation state."
Through this charter, Catalonia proposes to collect its own taxes and then pay central government its share. Currently, the reverse applies. It also calls for Catalonia to have its own independent judiciary.
It must be approved by the Madrid-based national Parliament to become valid, but some legal experts warn it may be unconstitutional.
The Popular Party, meanwhile, alleges the charter represents a step toward the dismemberment of Spain and has called on its some 700,000 members to fight it at every level. In addition, members of Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero's Socialist party view the charter as damaging to Spain.
Its passage through Parliament, a process that could take two months _ is seen as a major test for Zapatero's minority government, which relies on two pro-charter Catalan political groups for survival.
Zapatero, who supports debate on the issue, was to meet for talks on the issue with Catalan regional president and fellow Socialist party member Pascual Maragall, later Wednesday. Both agreed not to comment on the meeting afterward.
"This charter is not against anyone," Benach told reporters. "It's simply in favor of Catalonia.
"It doesn't aim to break anything. It's not a declaration of independence, by any means."
Benach stressed that the document needed to be debated and not rejected out of hand.
"I ask all political forces, especially the Popular Party of Mariano Rajoy, to open the door to dialogue, to democratic debate," said Benach, pointing out that the charter had been approved by more than 90 percent of the Catalan parliament.
Artur Mas, head of the Catalan coalition, Convergence and Union, insisted the proposed charter would simply allow Catalonia greater self government "within the unity of the state."
Around 7 million Catalans _ 16 percent of Spain's population _ account for over 18 percent of the country's financial productivity. Madrid, with 6 million inhabitants, is the country's economic powerhouse.