Asylum seekers at British detention centers reach second week of hunger strike
LONDON
A hunger strike led by African and Turkish asylum seekers protesting long stays at British detention centers entered its second week Wednesday.
Hundreds of detainees at the Colnbrook Immigration Removal Center in Middlesex, on the outskirts of London, began a hunger strike on April 8 after officers quelled a protest at the facility.
Hunger strikes spread to two other immigration detention centers in Britain last week after detainees began meeting under the auspices of church gatherings. The asylum seekers, who are mainly from Turkey, Ghana, Nigeria and Congo, have since dubbed their protest "Cry Freedom."
Britain's Home Office, which classifies a hunger strike as the refusal of four consecutive meals, said Wednesday that only seven of the more than 200 inmates who started the hunger strike are still refusing food. None of those inmates have required medical attention, said Home Office spokesman Darcy Mitchell.
But one of the protesting detainees, 29-year-old George Mwangi, of Kenya, said that many detainees have renewed their strikes after government officials' promises to look into their grievances resulted in no changes.
"We have been here for so long and, when he came with no new answers, we decided to take up the fight again," said Mwangi, who has been detained at Colnbrook for 10 months after his asylum application was rejected. "There doesn't seem to be an end to it."
Another detainee, John Turkson, a 36-year-old civil engineer from Ghana, said he has refused to eat for 10 days and refused to drink for a week. Speaking by phone from the Colnbrook on Wednesday, Turkson said his health is rapidly deteriorating due to malnutrition and Tuberculosis.
"I ran away from torture in Africa and I'm experiencing torture here in the U.K.," said Turkson, who has been held in British immigration facilities since October.
Colnbrook, one of Britain's 10 immigration detention centers, holds people detained for overstaying their visas, illegally entering the country or those who have failed to gain political asylum prior to their removal from the country.
It also holds a smaller proportion of detainees whose cases have not yet been decided, but who are considered to be at risk of absconding, or whose identities are being established.
Tension between detainees and British officials reached a boiling point Saturday when about two dozen people held at the Haslar Immigration Removal Center in Gosport, southern England, staged a demonstration by refusing to leave an exercise area at the facility.
Riot control police forcibly removed the detainees and transported them to Colnbrook, a higher security detention center.
Michael Woolley, coordinator of the Haslar Visitors Group, an immigration rights charity said conditions at the detention centers were poor.
He described dormitories at Haslar, a converted Victorian-era army barracks, as "cubicles."
Britain's largest asylum seekers' detention center at Yarl's Wood, north of London, was partially destroyed in February 2002 when detainees attempting to break out set fire to it. It was rebuilt in 2003.