Bomb threat ahead of Denmark-Israel soccer friendly By CHRISTIAN WIENBERG
COPENHAGEN, Denmark (AP)
Denmark's Soccer Federation said it has received a bomb threat ahead of Wednesday's pre-World Cup friendly against Israel but the game was to take place as scheduled, amid tight security.
A short anonymous letter received late Monday warned that ``a huge explosion'' would take place at the stadium if the Denmark-Israel match is played, federation spokesman Lars Berendt said.
The letter, written in Danish, also stated that ``both spectators and the Danish World Cup players will be in danger'' and ended with the words ``Free Palestine.''
Police and soccer officials said they were taking the threat seriously but pointed out that extra security measures already were in place with at least two major anti-Israel demonstrations scheduled in Copenhagen ahead of the game on Wednesday.
``We see this as a threat and all bomb threats are always taken very seriously,'' police spokesman Flemming Steen Munch said Tuesday. ``But it won't make us take any further security measures; we're already at the level needed.''
Police announced earlier this month that they were stepping up security at the game due to Israel's offensive against Palestinian militias, which has drawn international criticism.
Bomb sniffing dogs have been making regular sweeps of the Danish and Israeli training grounds and a fence was erected around the downtown, 40,000-seat Parken stadium to separate demonstrators from people with tickets.
Police and stadium officials also planned two checkpoints to search people as they go through the perimeter fence and when they enter the stadium.
In line with normal practice, police declined to say how many officers would be involved in the operation, but local media speculated it could be up to 2,000, or 20 percent of Denmark's police force.
The soccer federation gave players the option of withdrawing, but nobody was expected to do so, despite the security situation and calls from Palestinian groups and left-wing lawmakers that the game be canceled or boycotted.
``Our opinion on the general question of mixing or separating sports and politics is ... that it's our job to keep the two things apart to the extent that it's possible,'' team captain Jan Heintze said on behalf of the Danish players.
``We believe the Danish government, the European Union and United Nations are better than us at evaluating the current situation (in the Middle East),'' Heintze said.
About 17,600 tickets have been sold, but local media reported that hundreds of supporters have asked for their money back citing the security hazard or for political reasons. The soccer federation would not comment on those reports.
Denmark, a Scandinavian country of 5.3 million people, has about 15,000 residents with Palestinian roots.
The Danes will face defending champion France, Senegal and Uruguay in Group A in their third World Cup appearance.