Naval hero Horatio Nelson's funeral procession re-enacted on River Thames
LONDON
A flotilla of 70 boats moved sedately up the River Thames on Friday, re-enacting the elaborate waterborne state funeral of Britain's greatest naval hero, Admiral Horatio Nelson, who led his fleet to victory over the French and Spanish 200 years ago at the Battle of Trafalgar..
About 1,000 people gathered at the Old Royal Naval College in Greenwich to watch the procession set off upstream to Westminster in central London, recreating the extraordinary send-off Nelson received Jan. 8, 1806, more than two months after he was fatally wounded in the crucial battle.
On that day, tens of thousands of mourners lined the river to pay their last respects.
Friday's recreation, though watched by fewer people, was colorful.
Londoners such as Gloria Gooch, 67, attended to commemorate the life of the English war hero.
"I'm quite proud," Gooch said as she waited for the flotilla to arrive at Tower Bridge. "I want to see it, and I missed the first one 200 years ago. I think its something we should all do; it's part of our history."
A wooden replica of the royal barge Jubilant, draped with black fabric and plumes, headed the flotilla, rowed by oarsmen dressed in historical costumes. It carried a miniature coffin, containing a version of the letter sent back to Britain with news of Nelson's historic victory on Oct. 21, 1805, off Cape Trafalgar, a low headland in southwest Spain, when Nelson defeated Napoleon Bonaparte's forces.
Nelson's Trafalgar victory arguably ended any chance of an invasion of Britain by Napoleon and enabled the British empire to grow. Napoleon's final defeat came on land, at the Battle of Waterloo in 1815.
A passionate man in love and war, Nelson became a people's hero. His state funeral was the largest ever in Britain, with a mile-and-a-half-long (two-and-a-half-kilometer-long) procession following his coffin in London. Today, his statue atop a column in London's Trafalgar Square remains one of the city's most famous landmarks.
Reno Navarro, 63, who demonstrated his national pride and respect for the military by tying a large English flag to a rail along the Thames, said Nelson is a hero worth celebrating.
"He's the maker of the British empire because that's when the French empire collapsed," the retired electrician said.
During wars with the French, Nelson fought in more than 120 battles, losing an arm and an eye and suffering many other injuries. During the Battle of Trafalgar, a bullet entered Nelson's shoulder, pierced his lung and came to rest at the base of his spine. But he did not die until after the battle ended with a British victory, during which the Franco-Spanish alliance lost 22 ships and the British none.