In Sweden, police investigating pair of attacks on mink feed factory, leather store
STOCKHOLM, Sweden (AP)
Police said Monday they were investigating a pair of attacks against a mink food producer's warehouse and a leather shop, but had no suspects.
Both attacks happened Sunday night. In the first, in Boraas, 418 kilometers (260 miles) southwest of Stockholm, the warehouse of Svenljunga Mink, which produces feed for mink fur farmers, was set ablaze, destroying it and several vans and trailers in a nearby lot.
The second attack happened in Visby, on the island of Gotland. Police there said a leather shop had its windows shattered and paint was thrown over the store's products.
Boraas Police Cmdr. Hans Andren said there were no immediate suspects in the attack on the mink feed producer, but added arson was being considered.
It's the second time in two years the Svenljunga Mink company has been hit by fire, company director Allan Olausson said.
In the previous fire, a pair of animal rights groups  _  the Animal Liberation Front and The Wild Minks  _	claimed responsibility.
In Visby, 180 kilometers (112 miles) south of Stockholm, witnesses told police they saw four men smash the windows of the Skinn & Mocka shop and pour paint inside.
``This is the sixth time in three years that windows have been smashed, and this time it is worse than ever,'' shop owner Karin Pettersson. ``They have written 'Murderers turn vegan' on the wall.''
In recent years, animal-rights groups have increased their activity in the Nordic region and thousands of mink have been set free in Sweden, Finland and Denmark.
On Sept. 22, more than 7,000 minks were released by intruders at a mink farm in Kokkola north of Helsinki, Finland.
On Sept. 5, some 8,000 animals were freed from a farm near Ringkoebing in western Denmark. Farmers were able to catch all but 1,000 of them. Danish police suspected animal rights activists because the Danish acronym for the Animal Liberation Front was painted on a wall at the farm. No one was arrested.