Rome under massive security ahead of EU summit, demonstrations
ROME (AP)
Anti-globalization protesters placed three barrels full of dung in front of Premier Silvio Berlusconi's Rome residence Friday, challenging tight security in the capital for a European Union summit.
Some 50 activists left the barrels and fled. Police are permanently assigned to guard the front entrance, and it was not clear how the protesters were able to pull off their stunt.
Tensions were already high in Rome after a small package exploded at a Labor Ministry building in Rome on Thursday, while two others were sent to offices but did not blow up. The explosion caused no injuries.
The street in front of Berlusconi's residence was blocked off and the barrels were removed shortly afterward. Police at the scene refused comment.
The barrels were left by the self-styled ``Disobedient Ones,'' who are expected to be among some 30,000 anti-globalization protesters at the EU summit Saturday in the EUR neighborhood on the outskirts of Rome. A separate protest organized by trade unions was planned for Saturday afternoon in downtown Rome.
The summit marks the opening of negotiations to give Europe its first-ever constitution. It will bring together leaders from 15 EU member countries, 10 nations set to join next year and three EU hopefuls.
On Friday, police cordoned off the summit site. Police helicopters hovered above, while frogmen combed an artificial lake in the area for possible explosives.
The Interior Ministry refused to discuss security measures, but Italian news reports said some 4,000 police would be deployed in EUR.
The air space over the neighborhood has been closed, the reports said. Alitalia warned passengers planning to depart from Rome's Leonardo da Vinci airport Saturday to call before heading to the airport since some flights were expected to be canceled.
Snipers will be deployed near the summit venue, and the entire neighborhood will be under the eye of dozens of closed-circuit cameras, monitored by police, according to the reports.
City officials said three subway stops in the area would be closed, and bus routes were altered.
Interior Minister Giuseppe Pisanu has urged demonstrators to avoid violence, while the U.S. Embassy in Rome warned Americans to avoid the protest areas.
Italy has been the site of violent clashes during demonstrations in the past, notably during the Group of Eight summit in Genoa in July 2001, when a protester was shot dead by police.
(ar-fd/tr)