Police seek driver of suspicious car spotted on day of Queen Mother's funeral
LONDON (AP)
Police said Friday they were seeking the driver of a suspicious car left on a London street on the day of Queen Mother Elizabeth's funeral.
Police performed a controlled explosion on the vehicle, which had Northern Ireland license plates and had been left near the River Thames in the City financial district on Tuesday evening.
A City of London Police spokeswoman said she could not confirm or deny press reports that empty fertilizer bags were found inside the vehicle. Ammonium nitrate, the chemical in common fertilizer, can be used to make powerful bombs.
``Items were recovered from the boot (trunk) of the car,'' she said, on customary condition of anonymity.
She said police had stopped the car earlier in the evening near London Bridge, but the driver had driven off, arousing the suspicions of police.
Earlier in the day, some 400,000 people had gathered in streets about three miles (5 kms) away to watch the Queen Mother's funeral procession to Westminster Abbey.
Police said they wanted to speak to the driver of the car and a female passenger.
``It is very early days in this investigation and it is essential that the occupants of the vehicle come forward and assist with our inquiries,'' said Detective Chief Inspector Steve Eastwood of City of London Police.
Last month, Scotland Yard warned that a bombing by Irish Republican Army dissidents opposed to the Northern Ireland peace agreement was ``overdue'' in Britain.
A group known as the Real IRA has been blamed for a series of attacks in England over the past two years, most recently in the central English city of Birmingham on Nov. 3.
They include a March 2001 taxi bombing outside the British Broadcasting Corp. television center in west London, the car bombing of a street in Ealing, west London in August 2001 and a rocket-propelled grenade attack on the headquarters of MI6, Britain's foreign intelligence branch.
In July 2000, police detonated a bomb left on a subway line in west London on the same day as a pageant marking the Queen Mother's 100th birthday.