Paris marchers carry list of grievances from troubled suburbs to parliament
PARIS 2006-10-25 14:12:47 UTC
Mixing rap music with memories of France's revolutionary past, youths from often-ignored poor and minority neighborhoods marched in Paris on Wednesday to present a collection of 20,000 complaints to lawmakers.
Several hundred people staged the protest ahead of Friday's first anniversary of fiery suburban riots that shook France, with many in the country fearing a new explosion of despair and violence this year.
The grass-roots movement aims to make the "Book of Grievances" a political priority ahead of elections next spring -- but the turnout was scant and the head of the National Assembly refused to meet with them.
"There are people in the streets, that's what counts -- not the number," said Samir Mihi, co-founder of the association that collected the grievances.
"Immigrants scare the French" reads one entry. "Lots of foreigners looking for work can't find jobs" reads another.
Marchers held ragged-looking notebooks filled with the complaints while crossing southern Paris toward the Assembly, the lower house of parliament, after a stop at the Senate.
France's inability to integrate minorities from poor housing projects where the riots took root, and increasing recent violence against police, are becoming major political issues as the campaign heats up for next year's presidential and parliamentary elections.
"The context is still the same, nothing has changed. So the situation is propitious for other events like last year," said Mihi.
He and other members of AC-Le Feu, which grew out of last year's unrest, crisscrossed France in two painted minibuses in a monthslong tour of 120 suburbs and towns to meet with young and old and document their worries.
Now, with an action that they hope awakens images of the 1789 French Revolution, they planned to bring a new voice of the people to Paris and hand over the notebooks to lawmakers.
AC-Le Feu, a play on words for "enough fire," also wants to give officials "concrete, realizable proposals for a concrete problem," said Mihi.
The group is looking to draw the disenfranchised into positive action and make them "the voice of the greatest political party that can exist, that is to say the people," said Mohamed Mechmache, another AC-Le Feu founder.
While politicians on the left have called for more government programs to integrate poor minority youth since the riots, the leading presidential contender on the right, Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy, has sought to crack down on crime and immigration and echoed slogans of the extreme right.
AC-Le Feu was born shortly after the three weeks of unrest sparked by the deaths Oct. 27, 2005, of two young boys electrocuted in a power substation in Clichy-sous-Bois, northeast of Paris, while hiding from police.
Mihi and Mechmache work with youths in Clichy-sous-Bois and served as mediators during the riots, which hopscotched to poor housing projects around France.
Concern that the poor suburbs -- home to many young French of immigrant origin angry over entrenched discrimination and unemployment -- could again explode has been heightened by several incidents over the past few weeks, including a bus burning in broad daylight and traps set by gangs for police.
Knowledge that new laws, fistfuls of funds and a glut of promises have had no immediate impact only underscore the precarious nature of the truce.
"In 12 months, it's obvious that you can't change everything," said Clichy Mayor Claude Dilain.
"I'm worried because not only has the French society's attitude not changed but I think it has even worsened," he said in an interview with Associated Press Television News. "A large part of French society disdains the suburbs."
Dilain noted that not a single government minister attended the opening this month of a high-profile photo exhibit of life in Clichy-Sous-Bois.
"No one. No one. No one came," said the mayor.
Azouz Begag, the government minister for equal opportunities, warned Wednesday against emphasizing the idea that nothing has changed since the riots.
"Then the message will be that you can break France," he told reporters. "If you want fire, there will be fire."
------
Associated Press writer Jean-Marie Godard in Paris contributed to this report.