After Chirac's concession, protesting French students unsure how to proceed
PARIS
Protesting French students milled glumly around the gates of their blockaded campus Monday, trampling hand-painted placards and trying to cobble together a common strategy on whether to keep up the fight that helped bury a jobs measure or return to class.
Students more intent on protesting than studying have been at the forefront of France's weekslong standoff with the government over a new jobs law that would make firing young workers easier. More protests were planned Tuesday.
But President Jacques Chirac's announcement Monday that he would give in to protesters' demands and scrap the most contested part of the law, a so-called "first jobs contract," has thrown the movement into disarray.
Following the announcement, the mood outside the University of Paris-Jussieu was sober. Striking students, who closed down the sprawling campus on Paris' Left Bank more than a month ago, were divided over whether the barricades should come down.
"We are not stopping here," said Chahla Youssef, spokeswoman for a group that organizes university demonstrations across the country.
Youssef called the concessions a "small victory" but insisted that the government go further and revoke the entire law _ not just the disputed job contract.
"We were able to make the government give in on this point, and will succeed in making them retract the entire law if we just keep up the pressure," she said, adding that her group planned to go ahead with a demonstration slated for Tuesday.
Over recent weeks, similar marches have drawn over 1 million people nationwide, but with spring break in full swing in several regions, some student organizers feared a drop in attendance for Tuesday's protests.
Romain Calbrix, a physics major at Jussieu, said he expected it would be some time before student protests died down. He said students were "still very motivated," and added he thought many protesters "genuinely enjoyed" being politically active.
High schooler Stephane List predicted the movement would peter out soon.
"I, for one, am completely satisfied with what we managed to achieve," said 19-year-old List, whose Paris high school has been closed by student protesters on and off for the past three weeks.
He predicted the barricades would come down soon. "There's really no reason for us to continue," he said.