Strikes nearly cut off Corsica from mainland Europe
AJACCIO, France
Corsica was nearly cut off from mainland Europe on Friday with strikes spreading to airports, maritime links severed and a rocket attack adding to mounting tensions.
The unrest on the Mediterranean island, sparked initially by plans to privatize a state ferry company, was shaping up as one of the most serious tests for the young administration of Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin since President Jacques Chirac appointed him in late May.
Chirac condemned Thursday night's rocket attack that targeted a government building in Ajaccio on the west coast.
No injuries were reported and no one immediately claimed responsibility.
It was not clear whether the blast was the work of Corsican nationalists or linked to anger over the privatization plans for ferry operator SNCM, which runs services between the island and the French mainland.
Corsica has suffered more than two decades of low-level violence by organized crime gangs and separatists seeking independence from France. Bomb attacks generally occur at night, when buildings are empty.
Nationalists have joined strikers in protests this week against the SNCM privatization plans, particularly after Villepin called Wednesday on police commandos to retake a ferry commandeered by striking sailors. If convicted of highjacking, the sailors face 20 years in prison.
Four of the striking sailors were detained, fueling the angry protests. Authorities on Friday moved toward prosecuting two of the sailors by placing them under investigation _ a step short of formal charges.
The four, however, were set free late Friday _ drawing cheers in the port of Bastia followed by declarations of defiance.
"The mobilization worked and our friends have come back," said Jean Brignole, secretary of the Corsican Workers Union, adding that a large protest planned for Saturday would go ahead as scheduled "to show the government that the fight is still on."
Corsica's airports experienced delays Friday because of the strikes.
Maritime traffic with the mainland was completely stopped, as were links to the Italian island of Sardinia.
Under pressure, the government has backed down from its initial plan to fully privatize SNCM, offering Thursday to keep 25 percent of the company.
The government needs EU approval. It got a provisional green light Friday from the European Commission, but also was told that government funds should not be used merely to bolster the loss-making operator but to help it return to profitability.
EU Transport Commissioner Jacques Barrot also said the government's stake should be "reduced" over time.