Small German firm becomes the first to lose U.S. business over Germany's anti-war stand
BERLIN (AP)
A small eastern German company on Wednesday became the first to announce a boycott by an American company over Berlin's refusal to back the U.S. administration's moves to disarm Iraq militarily.
Lederett CEO Grit Kuhn notified Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder in a letter last Friday that the U.S. firm Eneco International Ltd., based in Auburn, Maine would no longer buy leatherboard from the firm because of Germany's anti-war policies. She said the deal was worth 46,000 euros (US$50,000) annually to the firm, employing 46 people in the Saxony town of Siebenlehn.
Eneco owner Norman Farrar said in a letter dated Feb. 18 he was calling off future purchases despite being pleased with the quality, service and price.
``The prime reason for this decision is due to the lack of support for the U.S. by the Federal Republic of Germany,'' Farrar wrote.
Kuhn appealed to the chancellor to change his position, accusing him of sacrificing the German-American friendship ``on the altar of short-term political success.''
``We ask the German government to modify its anti-war stance in the case of Iraq for the protection of German industry,'' Kuhn said in a letter, a copy of which was obtained by The Associated Press.
Germany's opposition to war  _	which started during Schroeder's campaign for re-election last summer  _  has prompted scattered calls in the United States for boycotts of French and German products. But Lederett is the only known victim to date, according to the German government and the German-American Chamber of Commerce.
A government spokesman in Berlin refused to comment on the case. However, concerns that the rift over Iraq could hamper commerce  _ worth 113 billion euros (US $122 billion) a year  _  prompted a two-day meeting last month in Bonn of German and U.S. business and political leaders. They expressed confidence that any fallout would be limited.
But Lederett has already lost its largest American customer, which Kuhn said the company fought two years to secure, and has been supplying for two years.
She indicated broader concerns for the well-being of the 60-year-old firm, noting that 90 percent of its production is for export.
``We don't know how many similar reactions German industry must experience,'' she said. ``However, we are sure that the German government would react if, for example, the automotive industry was similarly affected.''
Rather than showing any signs of softening its anti-war stance, Germany  _  along with France and Russia  _  on Wednesday said they will ``not allow'' passage of a U.N. resolution to authorize war against Iraq.
(cb-gm)