Zimbabweans living in Britain cast symbolic votes against Mugabe By IAN TALLEY
LONDON (AP)
Zimbabwean expatriates cast symbolic votes against President Robert Mugabe Saturday as the ballot boxes opened in their homeland.
Organizers said they expected several hundred ballots during the 36-hour vigil outside the Zimbabwe High Commission in London, staged in protest against the intense political violence and intimidation of the election campaign.
``The Zimbabwean refugees who have fled Mugabe's reign of terror are only a few of the many thousands of voters denied their democratic rights by blatant rigging of the voters' roll,'' said Washington Ali of the Freedom for Zimbabwe Campaign which organized the protest.
The presidential elections that began Saturday are the most competitive in the nation's history, pitting Mugabe, the 78-year-old head of the Zimbabwe African National Union Patriotic Front party, against opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai.
Ali, a Tsvangirai supporter, said he and other ``exiles'' had been denied postal votes despite a recent Supreme Court ruling to the contrary.
Human rights groups and political analysts say the election already is too tainted to be free and fair. Mugabe's government refused to accredit most independent Zimbabwean voting monitors.
``People are afraid to go and vote,'' said Tsvangirai supporter Ndabezinhle Sibandu.
``They are being told by his notorious youth brigade 'We have cameras and we are watching you.'''
Sibandu and fellow protester Patson Muzuwa see violence on the horizon, whatever the outcome of the vote.
``If Tsvangirai wins, Mugabe will try to coup with his army,'' said Muzuwa.
``And if Mugabe elects himself,'' said Sibandu, ``there will be a bloodbath. The people won't be able to accept him winning.''
Menzies Campbell, foreign affairs spokesman for Britain's third largest political party, the Liberal Democrats, said Saturday that ``neither the Commonwealth nor the wider international community can tolerate a fraudulent result in Zimbabwe.''
``The Mugabe regime has done everything in its power to intimidate its political opponents and to rig the election,'' he said.
``But the courage of the people of Zimbabwe may yet thwart him. The early signs are very encouraging.''
The election comes amid the country's worst economic crisis since independence in 1980. Inflation is over 110 percent, unemployment is 60 percent and hundreds of thousands of people are going hungry.