Greece hit by barrage of strikes to squeeze embattled government
ATHENS, Greece (AP)
Want a steak? Go to school? Visit the Acropolis? Grab a cab?
The list of complications in Greece goes on as a wave of strikes squeezes the country this month.
Workers  _  from taxi drivers and slaughter house inspectors to university professors  _  are all trying to wring concessions from the Socialist government, which opened the vaults in an attempt to boost its sagging popularity before general elections in the spring.
The latest walkouts closed courts Thursday with court employees demanding higher salaries. Greece's most famous tourist site  _  the Acropolis  _  was also shut Thursday by contract workers seeking permanent positions.
On Friday, flight attendants at the ailing state carrier Olympic Airways plan work stoppages to protest a government staff-trimming proposals.
The pressure on the government shows no sign of easing.
The Socialists	_  in power for the past 10 years  _  are badly trailing conservative opponents in opinion polls ahead of the spring election. Last month, the government announced a EUR 2.6 billion ($3.03 billion) spending package aimed at boosting living standards in the European Union's poorest nation.
Labor unions also want a cut. But the government says the state purse is closed.
``We have given what we have to give,'' Premier Costas Simitis said.
The strikes, however, could further rattle the government's support if they persist.
Academic staff at universities have entered their third week of a strike, demanding a 20 percent pay increase over two years. The government is offering a hike of 7.2 percent this year. The impasse threatens to halt classes indefinitely.
State elementary and high school teachers plan to strike Monday. Private school teachers may join the action.
State veterinarians and others from the Agriculture Ministry have also been on strike for more than three weeks  _  effectively closing slaughter houses and causing shortages at butcher shops in a country that is among the EU's most meat loving.
In an effort to tame the tensions, Economy Minister Nikos Christodoulakis on Tuesday announced wage hikes from 3 percent to 9.8 percent.
But it had the opposite effect: triggering an even greater wave of strikes from workers who feel they are being shortchanged.
State hospital doctors called for a three-day strike beginning Monday. Taxi drivers  _  protesting government plans that would require them to issue printed receipts	_  have announced a 24-hour strike for Saturday and a two-day work stoppage beginning Wednesday. Last month, cabbies stayed off the streets for four consecutive days.
``We are trying to explain our stance,'' government spokesman Christos Protopapas said. ``If the citizens, including the strikers, could understand why we have this stance and analyze our decisions they will see that they lead to real improvements in their lives.''
(mv/bm/dg)