EU faces calls to boost defense spending, improve anti-terror coordination
ZARAGOZA, Spain (AP)
European Union defense ministers opened talks Friday facing calls from NATO to spend more money on modernizing their armed forces or risk Europe's marginalization as a military power.
``Unless Europe does more militarily, we will not be able to operate alongside America's rapidly modernizing armed forces,'' NATO Secretary-General Lord Robertson warned.
``I believe that would be a disaster,'' Robertson told a conference in Prague on Thursday before heading to the EU meeting in Spain.
As well as discussing Europe's military capability, the two-day talks are scheduled to address closer EU cooperation in fighting terrorism, plans for an EU force to take over NATO's peacekeeping task in Macedonia and efforts to consolidate Europe's fractured armaments market.
The EU's own foreign and security chief Javier Solana, also chided the 15 ministers. ``European defense spending has steadily declined throughout the 1990s,'' he told the meeting. ``Our ambitions ... must be matched by adequate efforts in the area of defense spending.''
The meeting was being held amid tight security in Spain's military academy on the outskirts of Zaragoza in the north. Over 1,000 police and civil guard officers were deployed to head off the risk of terrorist attack or a repeat of the rioting outside last weekend's EU summit in Barcelona.
Antimilitary groups planned demonstrations Friday and Saturday.
NATO commanders complain that European forces lack the heavy transport planes needed to get troops to crisis spots quickly, precision attack weapons, electronic warfare equipment, up-to-date intelligence gear, missile defense and special forces.
Figures released by the alliance show U.S. military spending scheduled at dlrs 305.9 billion last year was almost double that spent by all the European NATO members _ even before U.S. President George W. Bush announced a dlrs 40 billion anti-terrorist package after Sept. 11.
The dlrs 159 billion NATO's European nations do spend on defense is often misdirected, or wasted through duplication because of poor coordination among the 15 EU states, Solana said.
``For an aggregate that represents roughly half the U.S. budget, the Europeans are far from producing half of the capability,'' Solana said.
With economies slowing and budgets tight, European nations are reluctant to increase defense spending.
