Trade unions protest on eve of European summit, calling for social justice and workers rights
BARCELONA, Spain (AP)
Some 50,000 trade unionists from across Europe marched in Barcelona Thursday, demanding that continental leaders meeting here improve social justice and workers' rights.
The afternoon march, replete with colorful flags and banners, was staged the day before the opening of a European Union summit in this Mediterranean port city. Authorities had already put tight security measures in place in anticipation of anti-globalization protests called to coincide with the summit.
More than a dozen riot police vans followed Thursday's peaceful demonstration from the city center to Barcelona's port area. Traffic was restricted on major boulevards.
The European Trade Union Confederation, which groups labor organizations from throughout Europe, led the demonstration.
``We want to stop the rich from getting richer and spread the wealth to the poor,'' said Carlos Arillo of Workers Commissions, one of Spain's largest labor organizations.
``In the United States that is called communism, but in Europe we call it democracy,'' said Arillo, wearing a red T-shirt with the slogan ``More Europe Yes! With full employment and social rights.''
The confederation's official platform calls for a globalization that promotes social justice, gender equality, a stronger voice for workers and full employment.
``We've come together to fight for more Europe, a more social Europe and more quality jobs,'' said Patrick Itschert, secretary general of the Belgian textile, clothing and leather union.
Socialist sympathizers joined the demonstration.
``We're opposed to a Europe that copies the North American model of total liberalization of markets,'' said Josep Hugeut of the Republican Left of Catalonia party. ``We have to improve the standard of social welfare.''
Many of the demonstrators said they were planning to participate in the large-scale protest scheduled for Saturday in Barcelona, when socialists, environmentalists and left-wing advocacy groups will gather under the slogan ``Another World Is Possible.''
Saturday's march has been called by a loose organization called the Campaign Against a Capitalistic Europe. It estimates the protest will attract between 20,000 to 50,000 demonstrators, with up to 10,000 arriving from outside Spain.
