Amid health crisis in Romania, hospital chiefs say they can no longer honor Hippocratic oath
BUCHAREST, Romania (AP)
Amid a deepening crisis in the country's health system, four hospital chiefs warned in a letter published Saturday that a shortage of drugs has left them unable to honor the Hippocratic oath requiring them to treat their patients.
The four represent major hospitals in Iasi, a city in northeastern Romania hardest hit by a nationwide crisis which has left medical facilities without basic medicines and supplies for months now. Some patients have reportedly died as a result of the shortages, although no reliable estimates of deaths were yet available.
``We are obliged to say we can no longer respect the Hippocratic oath, which means that if a patient dies because we don't have medicine in the hospitals, we do not want to be considered responsible,'' the four said in the letter, sent to the Health Ministry and the national medical association, the Doctor's Council.
The letter was published in the daily National, which said the letter had been sent earlier in the week.
The hospital chiefs, who remained unnamed, had requested confidentiality, according to another physician cited by the paper, Dr. Adrian Ciornei, the vice chairman of the Doctors' Trade Union of Romania.
Romania's health system has been underfunded for years, but the crisis has deepened in recent months as drugs and medical suppliers have halted deliveries to indebted hospitals. Many pharmacies also no longer honor prescriptions for drugs covered under the national insurance plan.
In past days, doctors in Iasi, the country's third largest city, have warned that 11 children with AIDS could die soon because their hospital, Saint Mary's, has run out of the drugs they need.
The crisis has prompted calls for political change.
``Health, a sector in crisis, seems to demand a dictator's hand,'' said an editorial in the daily Evenimentul Zilei on Thursday.
Thousands of doctors, nurses and patients have taken to the streets twice in past weeks, accusing the government of causing unnecessary suffering and death by underfunding the health system. Many also called for the resignation of Health Minister Daniela Bartos.
Prime Minister Adrian Nastase defended Bartos on Friday, claiming the blames lies with doctors who prescribe expensive foreign medications, travel to medical conferences abroad and mismanage health funds.
With hospitals nationwide facing severe shortages of the most basic supplies, doctors in Iasi began earlier this month to compile lists of patients who have died because no drugs were available to treat them. It wasn't clear how many names were on the list.
Under pressure to resolve the crisis, the government said this week it would allocate 9 trillion lei (US$265 million) to pay back debts to distributors of medicines to restart deliveries to hospitals.
Although the national health insurance board technically enjoys a surplus, it recently has been blocked from spending its funds by the government, which is trying to keep a low budget deficit to meet International Monetary Fund requirements for loans.
(am/aa/vg)