Thousands of demonstrating teachers block streets in Athens, Thessaloniki
ATHENS, Greece 2006-10-25 12:21:31 UTC
More than 10,000 teachers blocked streets in Athens Wednesday in the latest demonstration during a five-week strike that has kept primary school children at home since the start of the school year.
A group of youths broke away from the peaceful demonstration and attacked a bank with rocks and gasoline bombs, causing minor damage, police said.
State primary school teachers have been striking since mid-September. They were joined this week by colleagues from secondary schools, who have been holding a three-day sympathy strike.
Teachers have been demanding major increases in starting salaries -- from euro900 to euro1,400 (US$1,100 to US$1,750) -- and the allocation of more funds to education.
The demonstration blocked off Athens' main Syntagma Square and surrounding streets for several hours. Emergency medical workers also participated in the march to show their support, while the main civil servants' union called a three-hour midday work stoppage.
Teachers in the northern city of Thessaloniki also held a protest rally.
High school students have occupied school buildings around the country over the past two weeks -- adding to tensions that have emerged as the biggest challenge to the conservative government since its election in March 2004.
They have been protesting tighter university admission standards introduced last year as part of broader reforms in the university sector.
Teachers union representatives met Tuesday with Prime Minister Costas Karamanlis and Education Minister Marietta Giannakou to reiterate their demands.
But Karamanlis cited budget constraints in refusing to meet their main demands.
A court of first instance was to rule late Wednesday on a parental lawsuit alleging the teacher strike was unlawful.
The government is hoping to stop protest from spreading to universities, where students are protesting against plans to end a state monopoly on higher education, as part of a constitutional revision expected in two years.
The teachers will decide by Friday whether to continue their strike. The school shutdown has not affected private schools in Greece.