Environment ministers propose steps to protect the waters of the North Sea
BERGEN, Norway (AP)
Nations around the North Sea declared the need to manage territorial waters as a single ecosystem, reduce threats from radioactive and other waste and promote alternative energy Thursday as they concluded a two-day conference.
Environment ministers and senior officials from nine nations met in the west coast city of Bergen for the Fifth International Conference on the Protection of the North Sea.
Norwegian Environment Minister Boerge Brende, who chaired the meetings, said he saw key points in the concluding 30-page declaration as a decision to manage the North Sea with a broad view of the entire ecosystem and an agreement to take urgent steps to protect the sea from foreign organisms, often brought in the bilge water from ships.
He also mentioned agreement by all the countries, except France, to review agreements to process spent nuclear fuels after current contracts expire. That was an important point because of ongoing complaints by Norway and its neighbors that radiation from Britain's Sellafield nuclear reprocessing plant reached their waters.
British Environment Minister Michael Meacher said at a joint news conference that Norwegian concerns had been made very clear during the meetings in Bergen, the main city on Norway's west coast.
Meacher said Britain was reviewing options and that his government was preparing ``shortly to take a decision.'' He refused to hint at what that decision would be.
Radioactive technetium 99 has been detected in shellfish on the Norwegian coast, more than 800 kilometers (500 miles) away from the Sellafield plant. Researchers say the levels are too low to be a threat to health, but they worry about the long-term impact on marine life.
The meeting also was attended by Germany, Sweden, Denmark, Switzerland, Belgium, the Netherlands and France, with observers from Russia, Finland, Iceland, Spain and 26 international agencies and non-governmental groups.
The ministers also committed themselves to developing alternate forms of power around the North Sea, including wind and wave power. That drew a rare compliment from environmental activists.
Three Greenpeace activists scaled a building across from the meeting's waterfront hotel to unfurl a huge banner that said ``Good decision on wind. Now blow us away with action.''
``What they have managed to do is get a commitment to developing renewal energy resources,'' said Truls Gulowsen, a Greenpeace campaigner who attended the meeting.
However, he said Greenpeace was disappointed there was not a greater commitment to protecting depleted fish stocks.
The ministers also committed themselves to take steps by 2010 to create protected areas in the North Sea for endangered species, to cooperate in making sure international shipping regulations are applied and to carry out agreements on limiting nitrates that pollute the sea from agricultural fertilizers, sewage and other run-off.