1,500 Romanians protest lack of drugs, medical supplies With AP Photos
BUCHAREST, Romania (AP)
About 1,500 doctors, pharmacists and patients rallied Sunday in the capital to protest a critical lack of drugs and other medical supplies in the country's pharmacies and hospitals.
Carrying signs such as one that read ``Stop the genocide,'' protesters gathered near the Health Ministry and called for the resignation of the minister, Daniela Bartos, and other health officials. The demonstrators accused the government of causing unnecessary suffering and death by underfunding the health system.
With hospitals around the country facing severe shortages of the most basic supplies, doctors in the northeastern city of Iasi are compiling lists of patients who have died because there were no drugs available to treat them.
Some of the doctors told private television Antena 1 on Saturday that several patients at their hospital had died because there wasn't enough medication to treat them. The doctors said they plan to press charges against Bartos, and will present the lists as evidence in court.
Romania's health system has been underfunded for years, but the crisis has deepened in recent months as drugs and medical suppliers have halted deliveries to indebted hospitals. Many pharmacies also no longer honoring prescriptions for drugs which are paid for in part by the government.
Health officials promised Friday to resolve the crisis next week, saying that the government has allocated some 2 trillion lei (about US$59 million) to pay off some of the debts to suppliers.
Calls to the Health Ministry on Sunday went unanswered.
The government and the national insurance board currently owe over 15 trillion lei (about US$445 million) to medical distributors. They promised in February to pay off the debt, but distributors claim they haven't yet received any payments.
Although the national health insurance board technically enjoys a surplus, it has recently been blocked from spending its funds by the government, which has tried to keep the budget deficit low in hopes of meeting International Monetary Fund requirements for loans.
In February, parliament voted to back the government's handling of the health system, after the opposition accused health officials of poor management and underfunding the system.
(aa/am/vg)