Blair surprised by scale of insurgency in Iraq, vows British troops will stay the course
BRIGHTON, England
Prime Minister Tony Blair on Sunday acknowledged he was surprised by the ferocity of the insurgency in Iraq, but defended Britain's commitment to remain in the country.
The issue is sure to cloud his governing Labour Party's annual conference, as recent violence thrusts Iraq back into the media spotlight and intensifies questions about when British troops will pull out.
"There is absolutely no doubt in my mind that what is happening in Iraq now is crucial for our own security," Blair told the British Broadcasting Corp. as the weeklong conference opened in the southern coastal town of Brighton. "Never mind the security of Iraq or the greater Middle East. It is crucial for the security of the world."
Blair was asked whether he had expected it to be so difficult to restore order in Iraq following the U.S.-led invasion.
"No, I didn't expect quite the same sort of ferocity from every single element in the Middle East that came in and is doing their best to disrupt the political process," he said, referring to insurgents who have flooded into Iraq from neighboring countries such as Syria and Iran. "But I have absolutely no doubt as to what we should do. We should stick with it."
Britain has some 8,500 troops in Iraq, headquartered in the southern city of Basra. Blair's decision to back the U.S.-led invasion caused his popularity to plummet and cost Labour dearly in national elections earlier this year. Although the party won a historic third term in office, its huge parliamentary lead was slashed, raising questions about Blair's leadership and undermining his authority.
Blair hopes to concentrate on domestic issues during the conference and to rally the party behind his program for reforming public services.
But images of angry Iraqis pelting British soldiers with Molotov cocktails and a diplomatic rift over the arrest and subsequent jail break of two British soldiers in Basra have reignited criticism of the way Blair has handled the conflict.
Blair insisted that the two soldiers who were arrested last week after allegedly shooting two Iraqi policemen would not be handed over to Iraqi authorities. The men, who were operating undercover, were rescued from prison by a British armored patrol which crashed through the jail walls. The situation prompted a riot in Basra during which a British patrol came under attack by local residents.
"We will do whatever is necessary to protect our troops in any situation," Blair told the BBC. Asked if Britain would accept arrest warrants for the soldiers, Blair responded: "No, absolutely not."
Blair has faced repeated calls from political opponents to set out a timetable for withdrawing British troops from Iraq. A government memorandum leaked earlier this year shows Britain is considering scaling back its troop presence to 3,000 by the middle of next year.
London is reluctant, however, to publicly set a timetable, fearing it could encourage militants. On Sunday, Defense Secretary John Reid insisted that no date has been set.
He dismissed a report in The Observer newspaper Sunday that Britain was drawing up detailed plans to begin leaving Iraq in May, and reiterated Britain's long-held position that troop withdrawals depended on the ability of Iraqi forces to secure the country.
"When that condition has been met, we will hand over the lead in counter-terrorism to the Iraqis," Reid told Sky News. "There will then be a process _ it won't happen overnight _ where they gradually take the lead, we gradually withdraw to barracks and we gradually withdraw from Iraq itself ... that is possible to start in some parts of the country, that handover, in the course of next year."
Blair helped catapult Labour to power, after 18 years in opposition, by shifting the traditionally left-wing party toward the center. But his ongoing plans to encourage greater private sector involvement in state-run public services, such as education and health care, have angered many Labour members.
Trade unionists, still a potent force in the party, have tabled several motions calling on the government to strengthen the rights of workers to strike, to halt market reforms of the health service and protect state pensions, which are in crisis due to an aging population.
The motions, to be debated and voted on by delegates, cannot force the government to alter policy, but defeats would prove embarrassing for Blair.
Security is tight in Brighton, with some 1,300 police officers on duty. Some 300 protesters, many wearing black hoods and orange boiler suits, gathered outside the conference center Sunday calling for the release of a British resident being held at Guantanamo Bay.
Activists say Omar Deghayes, a 35-year-old Libyan, has been held for three years at the U.S. camp for three years after being seized in Pakistan.