Students protest anew inside Paris' Sorbonne University
PARIS
About 200 students protested anew inside Paris' Sorbonne University, which reopened Monday after being shuttered for six weeks during student demonstrations over a youth jobs law, school officials said.
Several hundred students voted to occupy the school again Monday to press new demands on the conservative government, university official Nicolas Boudot said. Despite the protests, classes continued as normal.
Police posted outside the building had been on alert for any signs that radical groups could disrupt classes. But protesters _ from various Paris universities, not just the Sorbonne _ were able to enter the building using their student ID cards.
Weeks of massive street demonstrations have dwindled since President Jacques Chirac's government voted to scrap the youth jobs law, which would have made it easier for companies to hire and fire young workers. Some demonstrators have continued pressing wider demands concerning the government's job policies.
The Sorbonne's column-lined main building on Paris' Left Bank became a symbol of the standoff after students occupied it March 8-11 and riot police stormed in to dislodge them.
Boudot said the protesters were not representative of the 12,000 students enrolled at the Sorbonne.
"The vast majority of students that we talked to today wanted to return to class," he said.
The university has asked for police to intervene, Boudot said, adding that the protesters were the same ones who had occupied the building in March.
The Sorbonne was shut for six weeks while workers carried out euro550,000 (US$677,000) in repairs and during its regularly scheduled spring break, which ended Monday.
During much of the protest movement, the Sorbonne's facade was barricaded behind a high metal screen where police with water canons were entrenched. The streets outside the school remained a gathering point for protesters, who saw regular scuffles with police.
Other universities around France reopened Monday for the first time since the protests, and the government minister in charge of higher education, Francois Goulard, said on France 2 television that the return to class was normal "practically everywhere."
Final exams will be delayed, he said, most by a few weeks but in a few cases until September so that students can make up coursework.