Thousands march in London to protest Israeli offensive
LONDON (AP)
Thousands of people marched through central London Saturday to protest Israel's military offensive in the West Bank and show support for the Palestinians.
Demonstrators gathered in Hyde Park and walked to Trafalgar Square, where some set an Israeli flag on fire and shouted ``Down with Israel'' and ``Jihad!'' or holy war.
Scotland Yard estimated between 10,000 and 15,000 people attended the rally. Protesters carried signs reading ``Free Palestine _ Victory to the Intifada.''
Anas Altikriti, of the Muslim Association of Britain, which organized the protest, said participants wanted to urge the British government to do more to stop the two-week-old Israeli action.
``This whole event is in support of the plight of the Palestinian people and to show that a huge proportion of the British people are against the passive stance of the international community and our government in particular against what is happening,'' he said.
``We believe that what has been happening over the past few months and weeks is nothing short of a war crime. The atrocities are something our government has to take a stand against.''
Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said he had been in touch with legislator Ann Clwyd, who was in Jenin, the scene of the West Bank's deadliest fighting, on a fact-finding mission.
``I am profoundly concerned by what she has told me, passing on eyewitness accounts from the camp,'' he said. ``I am disturbed by these further reports relating to the conduct of the Israeli Defence Force.''
The Foreign Office said Straw called in Israeli Ambassador Zvi Shtauber on Friday to convey his concerns and ask for further information about alleged human rights abuses by Israeli soldiers in the Jenin Refugee Camp. Britain's ambassador to Israel, Sherard Cowper-Coles, expressed the same worries to Israeli officials, the Foreign Office added.
The Foreign Office urged Israel to allow representatives of international human rights groups into the camp to evaluate what happened there.