Greek teachers signal end of strike, students urged to return to class
ATHENS, Greece 2006-10-26 16:15:31 UTC
The government Thursday urged educators and students to help restart the country's stalled state education system after teachers indicated they would end a strike that has kept primary schools closed for most of the semester.
"Right now, we should all be aiming to fully restore the normal functioning of the education system at all levels," government spokesman Evangelos Antonaros said.
Unrest in the education sector -- which spread from primary to secondary schools and could soon include universities -- has emerged as a major challenge to Greece's conservative government.
Teachers and students have held weekly demonstrations throughout central Athens since late September.
The state primary school teachers' union decided late Wednesday to recommend ending the strike, which started on Sept. 18, a week after schools opened. Their secondary school colleagues, who launched a sympathy strike this month, took the same decision.
A decision is expected Friday, during both unions' general assemblies.
"We will recommend continuing our fight in another form," union leader Dimitris Bratis said. Both unions said they will propose 24-hour strikes on Nov. 3 and 9.
Primary and secondary school teachers are demanding increases in net starting salaries from around euro900 to euro1,400 (US$1,100 to US$1,750) -- which the government has ruled out -- and the allocation of more funds to education.
If teachers vote to end the strike, education ministry and union officials are considering extending school hours and holding classes on holidays to make up for missed lessons.
"Without pressing pupils too much, we will find a way," union secretary general Polyzois Babouras said.
But many secondary schools may remain closed as some 900 -- out of about 3,000 throughout Greece -- are under occupation by students who want the government to abolish a new minimum grade requirement of 10 out of 20 for admission to state universities and polytechnics. Teachers have backed this demand.
The governing conservatives also face strong reactions from university staff and student unions over plans to end the state monopoly on tertiary education by allowing the creation of nonprofit private universities. This would require a constitutional amendment, which would come into effect after the next elections, set for March 2008.
A scheduled parliamentary debate on the amendment was postponed last week to early next year.