Norway expected to approve controversial Arctic natural gas
OSLO, Norway (AP)
Parliament appeared set to approve Norway's first petroleum development in the arctic Barents Sea on Thursday, despite fierce protests from environmental groups.
The Snoehvit, which means Snow White, natural gas project is endorsed by the Labor Party, the Conservatives, the Christian Democrats and the Party of Progress, with a total of 128 seats in the 165-member parliament.
The Norwegian news media predicted Thursday's vote would come out in its favor.
Snoehvit, which is to provide liquefied natural gas for the U.S. and European markets, is the biggest development project ever proposed for Norway's far north and the first in the waters of the Barents Sea.
The roughly 40-billion kroner (dlrs 4.5 billion) project would provide badly needed jobs in Finnmark, Norway's northernmost province, thus pitting local business leaders against environmental groups.
``This is a big day for northern Norway,'' said Arvid Jensen of the Finnmark Business Forum.
Elin Lerum Boasson, leader of the Nature and Youth group, had the opposite view and promised to use every legal appeal available to block the project.
``This is a horror story,'' she said after a demonstration against the project outside parliament. ``The Snoehvit project is the most controversial in Norwegian oil and gas history. We think it is completely irresponsible to open the Barents Sea, which is so vulnerable and valuable, for oil and gas activity.''
The project calls for the development of the Snoehvit natural gas field, about 130 kilometers (80 miles) west of Hammerfest, Norway's northernmost town, by the end of 2006.
The state-controlled oil company Statoil ASA and its project partners also plan a gas liquefaction plant and natural gas power plant on an island near Hammerfest, connected to the field with a pipeline. The facilities would process up to up to 5.67 billion cubic meters (200 billion cubic feet) of natural gas per year.
The Norwegian environmental group Bellona claims the project could endanger the environment of the Barents Seas, a rich fishing and sea bird area.
Environmental groups also say carbon dioxide emissions from the power plant would increase levels of climate damaging gasses by more than 800,000 tons per year, but supporters say it is environmentally sound.
Statoil said all well installations will be under water, on the seabed, and with no above-water platforms to disturb fishing.
Because it will produce natural gas, and not oil, the environmental risks of oil spills are reduced, the government said.