Coptic Christians rally in Athens after sectarian riots in Egypt
ATHENS, Greece
About 500 Egyptian Coptic Christians, carrying wooden crosses and religious icons, marched to the Egyptian embassy in Athens Wednesday following deadly weekend sectarian clashes in the Egyptian port city of Alexandria.
The demonstrators, who later dispersed peacefully, chanted "we give our blood and soul for the cross," and said they had gathered to demand that Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak provide better protection for Christians, who make up about 10 percent of the country's 78 million people.
"Mubarak, you have to listen to us," chanted the crowd, that included many women with young children. The demonstration blocked traffic in part of central Athens for about an hour.
"We don't have freedom. We just want to practice our religion peacefully ... We have heard many assurances but the reality is different," said Father Mark, a Coptic priest who led the demonstration and met the Egyptian ambassador to Athens to present his demands.
"There will be other protests in Paris and America and other places. We don't know what else to do. They are destroying our churches. We want to have our safety guaranteed."
Two people were killed, dozens were wounded and about 100 protesters were detained during the weekend riots between Christians and Muslims in Alexandria, touched off by a spate of knife attacks at Coptic churches in Egypt's second largest city.
The clashes have raised fears of a wider sectarian violence in Egypt.
Predominantly Orthodox Christian Greece has close ties with Egypt and its Christian minority who share many religious traditions with the Greek Church and both celebrate Easter next Sunday. The Copts split from other branches of Christianity in 451.
At Wednesday's rally, demonstrators chanted the Lord's Prayer and sang psalms in Arabic. On several occasions, angry men challenged a line of riot police and were restrained by other protesters. Other demonstrators carried home made placards and computer print-outs of religious icons.
"We don't trust the police," said Thomas William, a protester who handed out fliers at the rally.
"The police in Egypt did nothing to stop the attacks against us, but then they beat us in the street when we protested."