Three Muslim lawmakers boycott Danish PM's meeting on terror
COPENHAGEN, Denmark
Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen met Tuesday with prominent Danish Muslims to discuss terrorism, three Muslim lawmakers who boycotted the meeting accused the government of demonizing Islam by not inviting followers of other religions.
After the nearly three-hour discussion at the prime minister's official residence north of Copenhagen, Fogh Rasmussen said it had been "a good and positive meeting."
"Everyone around the table took a clear and straightforward distance from any kind of terrorism," he said after meeting with the 19 Muslim representatives, including imams and leading activists.
He said one of the main topics discussed was how to avoid the spread of Islamic extremism among immigrant youths in Denmark after the London bombings.
"The imams who took part said they felt co-responsible for making sure that young people with a Muslim background are not drawn by fanatic and extremist groups," Fogh Rasmussen said.
All three Muslim parliamentarians invited to the meeting declined to attend. Kamal Qureshi, a Muslim lawmaker from the opposition Socialist People's Party, said "Fogh Rasmussen is making a direct connection between terrorism and Muslims."
The invitation informed participants that the government would provide translators if needed, which also angered some of the invitees.
"I just wonder what language Fogh Rasmussen would speak since he has offered interpreters," Qureshi said.
Lawmakers Huseyin Arac and Naser Khadar also declined the invitation.
Arac said the invitations should have been based on political, rather than religious affiliation.
"I am more than willing to meet with the prime minister if he wants to hear some good advice from the Social Democrats," he said.
There was criticism even among those who decided to participate in the meeting. Five of them issued a statement Tuesday urging the government to "clarify that they were not invited because they are Muslims but as representatives of (our different) organizations."
There was no immediate reaction from the government.
Nearly 150,000 Muslims live in Denmark, representing 2.8 percent of the country's 5.4 million residents.
Denmark has been threatened by previously unknown groups because it has about 500 troops in Iraq.
The only known Middle East-related attack in the country occurred in 1985, when a bomb was detonated outside the offices of North West Orient airlines, killing one person and wounding 16. Three Palestinians living in Sweden were convicted of planting the bombs and sentenced to life in prison in 1989.