Dozens demonstrate in support of Iraq war, others rally against it
BUCHAREST, Romania (AP)
Dueling demonstrations on Friday underscored Romanians' ambivalence about the war in Iraq, with supporters and opponents staging small but spirited rallies downtown.
About 50 people rallied in support of the U.S.-led campaign, while dozens of high school students gathered nearby to protest the war.
Both demonstrations took place on University Square, a symbolic area which saw some of the fiercest battles during the uprising which ousted the late communist dictator Nicolae Ceausescu in 1989.
Carrying U.S. flags and signs reading ``America is Our Hope,'' ``Hitler, Stalin, Ceausescu and Saddam,'' ``Dictatorship - We Were There,'' and ``Brother (Jacques) Chirac, Are You Asleep?'' the pro-American demonstrators called on the rest of Europe to support the drive to remove Saddam Hussein.
``Saddam is torturing his people ... he is even worse than Ceausescu,'' said Nicolae Popescu, 54, an oil worker. ``Good and evil must not be confused.''
Popescu said the United States should have intervened in Romania to rescue the country from communism.
Across the street, a group of high school students against the war played music by the late reggae artist Bob Marley and carried flowers and cardboard tanks and planes.
``Saddam is a killer, but they should not hurt an entire people to get him,'' said Ioana Erghelegiu, a 17-year-old student.
Riot police broke up the anti-war protest, with officers telling participants to leave the area because they didn't have permission to demonstrate. Police scuffled with several protesters who refused to leave and detained two young men.
Romania, which has been invited to join NATO last year, has contributed 278 non-combat nuclear, biological and chemical decontamination specialists to the U.S.-led coalition.
Many Romanians have mixed feelings about the war. Some keenly remember the repression they endured under Ceausescu's communist dictatorship, while others fear the war will worsen the plight of ordinary Iraqis.
(aa/bk)