France drops resistance to opening energy market, but seeks legal guarantees
BARCELONA, Spain (AP)
With foreign affairs overshadowing the European Union's economic agenda, France said Friday it will accept a partial privatization of energy markets in line with the EU goal to become the world's most ``dynamic economy'' by 2010.
But Paris made its agreement conditional on keeping traditional public services off-limits to free enterprise.
Outside the opening of the two-day EU summit, riot police used truncheons to beat back rock-throwing protesters who mounted an anti-globalization demonstration on Barcelona's flower and bird market.
Thousands of demonstrators have swarmed into this port city from around Europe and Spain _ especially the violence-scarred Basque region _ to protest EU leaders' plans to privatize energy and financial markets. Police said arrests were made but declined to give a number. There were no serious injuries, they said.
As the first-day of an EU summit drew to a close, the 15 leaders also debated Mideast peace efforts, drafting a statement praising the peace initiative by Saudi Crown Prince Abdullah and demanding that Israel lift all travel restrictions on Yasser Arafat, the Palestinian leader.
The Europeans also considered intensifying sanctions against Zimbabwe for staging flawed elections and against Iraq for its continued flouting of United Nations demands it readmit U.N. arms inspectors.
British Prime Minister Tony Blair sounded out fellow leaders on the possibility of U.S.-led action against Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein.
British officials said other EU members recognized the threat posed by Iraq's development of weapons of mass destruction. Blair made it clear, the officials said, there was no U.S. decision on specific measures to be taken against Saddam.
``The whole world has made a decision that Iraq poses a very serious threat to the security of the region and to the security of the international community,'' British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw, told British Broadcasting Corp. radio as the summit began.
On the energy issue, French Prime Minister Lionel Jospin demanded ``solid guarantees ... about the place of public services'' in the 15 EU nations.
He and French President Jacques Chirac said they will agree to open gas and electricity markets across Europe to competition by 2004 for businesses, but not for private citizens.
They also demanded adequate government regulatory powers in energy matters to prevent companies from gouging clients, EU legislation defining what services can be kept outside the private sector and concerted action to remove obstacles hampering an EU-wide network of road and rail transport.
The EU ministers backed an agreement by Serbia and Montenegro to stick together in a new loose federation.
``This is the only way to guarantee the future of Serbia and Montenegro, and the whole region,'' said Foreign Minister Josep Pique of Spain, which holds the six-month rotating EU presidency.
The Serbo-Montenegrin agreement coming after agreement on a power sharing deal in Kosovo and major steps to boost peace in Macedonia, prompted EU leaders to spotlight their Balkan diplomacy.
The EU leaders assessed their drive, launched in 2000, to modernize the economy by slashing red tape, lifting national barriers and bringing EU companies and individuals more quickly into the digital age.
Progress has been slowed on some fronts, however, because France and Germany have leadership elections this year and politicians are wary of upsetting powerful labor unions.
Post offices, railways, airlines, power and water utilities and other traditionally public sector services have been wholly or partly privatized in EU nations with Britain, Sweden, the Netherlands and Spain leading the drive. France sought guarantees that governments would retain control over some services.
Leaders of 13 nations seeking EU membership joined the economic talks at the summit.
The leaders' Mideast statement coincided with Israel scaling down its biggest military operation in a generation but failing to comply with U.S. demands to leave all Palestinian-controlled areas to boost U.S. envoy Anthony Zinni's new truce mission.
In a draft statement, the European leaders insisted there ``is no military solution'' to the conflict and that ``violence by both sides only inspires anger and revenge and leads to further violence and increased suffering for both peoples.''
