Thousands form human chain, calling for the opening of Romania's communist-era secret police files
BUCHAREST, Romania (AP)
About 3,000 protesters called on lawmakers Tuesday to open the files of the former communist regime's secret police, forming a human chain around the symbolically charged palace of the late dictator Nicolae Ceausescu.
The protesters	_  whose numbers included workers, nuns, students and self-described victims of the intelligence agency known as the Securitate  _  joined hands around the 3-kilometer (2-mile) perimeter of the vast palace, which houses parliament. They chanted: ``You have the power, you hold the (Securitate) files, but you don't have a drop of honor.''
They said Romanians have the right to know who had once spied on ordinary citizens for the feared agency, which had an estimated 700,000 informers and nearly 40,000 officers when communism ended in 1989.
The demonstrators also voiced anger that many former Securitate agents, who held privileged positions under Ceausescu, hold high positions today in business, politics and the media.
``The political stage is full of former Securitate officers,'' said Bogdan Alexandru, a 22-year-old economics student. ``They cast a long shadow over our society and Parliament.''
Legislation was passed in 1999 allowing for the opening of the communist-era files, but it hasn't yet been fully implemented due to resistance by the current intelligence service, the custodian of the files, some members of the ruling leftist Party of Social Democracy and the nationalist Greater Romania Party.
``It is the first time that workers, intellectuals and young people have joined hands and called for the past to be clarified,'' said Mircea Dinescu, a poet and former anti-communist dissident, who is on the council responsible for opening the files. ``This must worry the ruling party.''
The council does not have access to the files and some of its members regularly accuse the intelligence service and lawmakers of working to block the publication of the files.
Another protester, 63-year-old Nicolae Vasilescu, a retired architect, wore a poster naming 15 officers and a dozen informers who he said had spied on him. He said it would be ``morally beneficial'' for the country to open the files.
``I found out that neighbors and friends and colleagues spied on me,'' said Vasilescu, who said he was first arrested when he was 16 for organizing protests against the Soviet Union. ``They even had a file on my son when he was 11.''
The leader of the Greater Romania Party, Corneliu Vadim Tudor, on Monday called Dinescu and others who want the files opened ``irresponsible.'' He has long argued that opening the files would open old wounds and cause bitter divisions among Romanians.
At the rally were a group of nuns who had traveled 250 kilometers (155 miles) from their convent in the Danube port of Galati, demanding that the Orthodox Church publish the names of priests who collaborated with the Securitate.
``We don't want punishment for former Securitate officers, but we don't want to continue this cover-up, which is a lie,'' said Sister Liliana, who said she had been questioned by the Securitate.
Pro-democracy advocates in Romania have become more strident in their calls for the secret police files to be opened as the country moves toward joining NATO and the European Union.