EU leaders announce agreement on partial energy markets
BARCELONA, Spain (AP)
Anxious to get economic reforms back on track and eager to catch up to the United States, European Union leaders signed off on plans to cut red tape and boost Europe's floundering economies Saturday.
As the two-day EU summit ended, however, the leaders announced only a partial liberalization of energy markets: they agreed to open the gas and electricity markets to competition by 2004 at the latest, but only for commercial customers.
Officials said this amounted to 60 percent of the EU market.
A date to open the gas and electricity markets for private users will be decided in the next 12 months, the leaders agreed.
French Prime Minister Lionel Jospin and President Jacques Chirac, just weeks away from elections and wary of concerns at home over energy prices, demanded ``solid guarantees'' that traditional public services remain off-limits to free enterprise.
Energy liberalization has become a hot topic in France, where Chirac and Jospin are pitted against each other in the presidential election campaign.
``A year ago there was no possibility of agreement at all, that is why we should be pleased. We are talking about the liberalization of 60 percent of the energy market,'' Spanish Finance Minister Rodrigo Rato said late Friday.
The opening up of national markets, boosting investment in education and research and development, and promoting high tech are all part of the EU goal to become the world's most ``dynamic economy'' by 2010.
The leaders agreed to boost their research and development spending to reach 3 percent of gross domestic product by 2010, with two-thirds of investment coming from the private sector. By the same year, they also aim to increase daycare for at least 90 percent of children of working moms and to move the average retirement age from the current 58 to 65.
In education, leaders promised to back increased training, to make sure that each child learns at least two foreign languages and that at least one out of every 15 students have access to an Internet-connected PC.
They also pledged to lower taxes for low income earners.
The leaders, admitting that they failed to meet targets set two years ago, are adamant about pushing through economic reforms in an attempt to play catch-up to the United States and boost job creation.
The 15 leaders were also debating Mideast peace efforts and demanding that Israel lift all travel restrictions on Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat.
The Europeans also considered slapping more sanctions against Zimbabwe for staging flawed elections last week. A final decision on added measures against President Robert Mugabe is expected to be made at an upcoming foreign affairs ministers meeting in April.
Possible action against Iraq was also discussed, but European officials stressed no military strike was imminent.
Spanish authorities expect more clashes with protesters on the last day of the summit, as tens of thousands more demonstrators, including anti-capitalists and Basque separatists, are expected to descend on the city's historic center.
Riot police used truncheons to beat back dozens rock-throwing protesters during often violent demonstrations on Friday.
Police said protesters were arrested for public disorder and resisting authority, but gave no figures.
Authorities have deployed some 8,500 officers around the city, as well as combat jets and ground-to-air missiles and warships off the coast. NATO has also sent a surveillance jet.