Caustic packages sent to Blair's Downing Street residence and a Scottish lawmaker's assistant
LONDON (AP)
Anti-terrorist officers were trying to trace up to 14 packages containing dangerous chemicals Saturday after two were sent to Prime Minister Tony Blair's Downing Street residence and a lawmaker's female assistant.
Quoting unnamed sources, Press Association, Britain's national news agency, said one parcel had been addressed to the prime minister's wife, Cherie Blair.
Scotland Yard and Blair's office would not comment on who the package was addressed to, however, but confirmed nobody had been injured by the parcels, which contained caustic soda disguised as eucalyptus oil.
The other package was sent to a female assistant to Mike Rumbles, a Liberal Democrat member of the Scottish Parliament.
``I am extremely angry at this quite despicable act, the police are onto it and I hope they get the perpetrators as quickly as possible,'' Rumbles said Saturday.
He said his assistant had opened the parcel, which had been sent to her home, but had not opened the bottle inside and had not been harmed.
Rumbles said he did not know why he or his staff should be targeted.
Police issued a public warning Friday night after an anonymous man claimed he had sent up to 16 packages.
In the telephone claim received at 2 p.m. (1400 GMT) Friday, the man identified himself as a member of the Scottish National Liberation Army, an extremist Scottish nationalist group that was formed in 1980.
During the 1980s, the group, which demands an independent Scottish republic and Gaelic as its national language, made several hoax bomb and death threats to Britain's royal family. It was linked to an anthrax letter hoax involving letters sent last summer to St. Andrews University in Scotland, where Prince William is studying.
Police said the contents of the two latest packages received resembled an aromatherapy product and included a leaflet saying it was complimentary sample.
``The packages, which arrived by mail, purported to contain eucalyptus oil, but further analysis has revealed they contained a caustic substance,'' a spokesman said.
Forensic tests identified the substance as sodium hydroxide, the spokesman said. Sodium hydroxide, or caustic soda, is extremely corrosive and can cause blindness or scarring. It is commonly used in the paper industry and in the manufacture of soaps and detergents.
Blair was visiting Australia on Friday to attend a Commonwealth summit. Downing Street refused to comment on what it described as a ``security issue.'' However, a source there said that no one was ever in any danger in the building, as security officials had become suspicious of the package during routine screening.
Scotland Yard warned the public Saturday not to open suspicious packages.
``We believe this is especially applicable to members of the political parties and their members of staff,'' a spokesman said.