Red Brigades claim responsibility for slaying
ROME (AP)
An offshoot of the Red Brigades terror group claimed responsibility for the slaying of a government adviser Thursday in a communique posted on the Internet.
The claim came a day after Interior Minister Claudio Scajola publicly blamed the group for the murder of economist Marco Biagi, who was working on labor reform _ a bitterly contested issue in Italy.
Biagi, a 52-year-old university professor, was the second economist working on labor reform to be gunned down in three years.
The claim of responsibility came at the beginning of a 26-page document written in turgid political prose which was e-mailed to an independent regional news agency, Caserta 24 Ore. Caserta 24 Ore posted it on its website Thursday.
``An armed nucleus of our organization executed Marco Biagi,'' the document begins, saying Biagi was targeted because his work as a consultant to the labor minister made him part of a government which ``represents the interests of bourgeois imperialism.''
The Interior Ministry had no immediate comment on the claim.
A day earlier, the interior minister said Biagi was killed with the same 9 mm handgun used in the 1999 slaying of another government economics adviser, Massimo D'Antona.
Both men advocated measures to loosen up Italy's labor market, one of the most rigid in Europe, by making it easier to fire workers.
The same offshoot of Red Brigades which claimed Biagi's slaying also claimed responsibility for D'Antona's murder, the first claimed by the group in 11 years.
The Red Brigades, along with rightist groups, bloodied Italy with terrorist attacks in the 1970s and '80s.
Biagi was shot to death Tuesday evening outside his apartment building in Bologna by gunmen on a motorscooter.
Shortly afterward, the Red Brigades claimed responsibility in an anonymous phone call to a Bologna newspaper, but investigators were cautious because the terror group's typical claim responsibility is a long communique.
The slaying stunned the nation, which has been split over the conservative government's plan to change the labor laws. Tens of thousands of people took to the streets Wednesday in Rome, Bologna and elsewhere to protest political violence.
___
On the Net:
Caserta 24 Ore news agency: www.caserta24ore.it