Killing of spy makes Northern Ireland deal more difficult, Irish premier says
DUBLIN, Ireland
The assassination of a Sinn Fein official who had admitted spying for the British will make a new power-sharing deal in Northern Ireland more difficult, Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern told lawmakers Wednesday.
Despite this, Ahern said he and British Prime Minister Tony Blair would reveal a long-awaited new plan Thursday in Armagh, Northern Ireland, that aims to forge a Catholic-Protestant administration led by leaders of Sinn Fein, the IRA-linked party, and their bitter Protestant rivals from the Democratic Unionist Party.
"We have made it clear that the two governments will not be deterred from efforts to bring politics center stage in Northern Ireland," Ahern said. "So Tony Blair and I will travel to Armagh tomorrow and get on with it."
Ahern said Tuesday's killing of Denis Donaldson in northwest Ireland had heightened Protestant opposition to sharing power with Sinn Fein. He said the killing "certainly makes it more difficult."
Donaldson, 55, had been living alone at his vacation home since December, when he went on national Irish television to confess he had been a British agent inside Sinn Fein for decades. The IRA traditionally killed anybody suspected of spying for the British, but the outlawed group last year announced it had renounced violence and disarmed _ and on Tuesday denied killing Donaldson.
Ahern said officers from the Irish Republic's national police force visited Donaldson's home in January to warn him he could be a target, and gave him the telephone number of the nearest police station. He said mobile police patrols occasionally drove past Donaldson's home, but the former Sinn Fein bureaucrat refused an offer of formal police protection.
Ahern said Donaldson's betrayal of comrades in Sinn Fein and the IRA meant he had many enemies. "But whoever was responsible for this evil deed was certainly no friend of the peace process," he said.
In London, Blair _ speaking publicly for the first time about Donaldson's killing _ called it "a serious, appalling, barbaric act." He said it would have "serious implications" if police determined that IRA members were responsible, and emphasized that Sinn Fein "has to be clean of all this." But he said delaying Thursday's announcement would only reward the killers.
"The timing of this (killing) does suggest that whoever did this wants to derail the peace process. Our response should be to deny them what they want," Blair said.
Blair added that dissident IRA hard-liners opposed to Sinn Fein's political direction might have killed Donaldson specifically to sabotage the new diplomatic effort. "Sometimes these things can be perpetrated by people in disagreement with their leadership," he said.