German hospital doctors step up strikes to press for higher pay
BERLIN
Doctors at 20 state-run German hospitals were on strike Tuesday, their main union said, stepping up pressure for a large pay hike and an end to unpaid overtime.
The strike affected 11 university hospitals and nine psychiatric clinics, the Marburger Bund union said. On Monday, doctors walked out at 15 clinics.
The union is seeking an increase of up to 30 percent in basic wages for 22,000 doctors at university and state hospitals, along with better-regulated working hours and full overtime payments.
The stoppages, which began last Thursday, are restricting non-urgent patient care, though emergency and intensive-care services are unaffected.
Union officials say doctors deserve a raise because of extensions in their working hours, cuts in traditional Christmas and holiday payments and failure to pay overtime in recent years. They say they will accept a longer regulation working week in return.
However, state governments, under pressure to cut costs because of mounting debts, have denounced the strikes as irresponsible and say they cannot afford such a large pay increase.
Marburger Bund chief Frank Montgomery said Tuesday that the doctors were "capable of escalation" if employers don't offer a pay increase. "We feel we have been treated disgracefully," he said.
He said doctors would hold a major demonstration in the central city of Hanover on Wednesday.
The doctors' strike coincides with a wider dispute over working hours for public employees ranging from garbage collectors to highway maintenance workers, which has resulted in weeks of strikes.
Local authorities have been pressing some employees to work 40 hours a week, compared with 38 1/2 hours at present, without extra pay.
The ver.di service workers' union argues that lengthening hours would destroy jobs, but employers say more work and greater flexibility are needed as they wrestle with strapped budgets.
The main IG Metall industrial union also is threatening a wave of warning strikes unless employers improve their response to its demand for a 5-percent pay rise for Germany's 3.4 million manufacturing workers.
"We want a solution at the negotiating table, so I urge (employers) to finally put forward an offer worth negotiating," IG Metall labor union chief Berthold Huber said Tuesday.
The union points to improvements in productivity and strong corporate profits, but employers have argued that wages can be raised by only 1.2 percent and that a large hike could undermine Germany's hesitant economic recovery.