Alert! France trains for deadly gas attack on Paris subway
PARIS (AP)
Victims writhed in agony, police wrestled a suspected terrorist to the ground, deadly gas spread through the subway and rescue workers in white chemical suits rushed to the scene.
Training for a nightmare officials hope will never come, but fear nonetheless, Paris police and rescue services carried out their first full-scale exercise Thursday to test their response to a chemical attack.
The simulation started bang on time, just before midnight (2200 GMT), with suspected terrorists spilling a liquid that released ``toxic'' gas in the Invalides Metro and suburban train station on Paris' Left Bank.
Pretend victims, wearing signs around their necks which listed their symptoms, littered the platform and a train that had pulled in. The station is close to Les Invalides, a gold-domed former hospital that houses Napoleon Bonaparte's tomb.
The imaginary attack, which was to involve 500 police and rescue service officers, illustrated the extent to which the French consider themselves a potential terrorist target. Over the past two years, police have dismantled alleged terror cells and uncovered potential attack plots.
Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy, who was to attend the exercise, said the simulation came out of a request law enforcement had made to President Jacques Chirac.
``This exercise is a way of being ready, even if there is no specific threat,'' he told the National Assembly on Wednesday. Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin was also scheduled to attend.
The simulation will be followed by some 50 similar exercises around France next year, Sarkozy said.
Trying to make the exercise as real as possible, police officials updated reporters on their progress as the simulation unfurled. After about an hour, police announced that tests had determined that the toxic gas had been identified as sarin. That was, of course, make-believe but sarin has already been proven to be a deadly threat.
The nerve agent, developed by the Nazis, was used in a 1995 attack on the Tokyo subway by doomsday cult Aum Shinri Kyo that killed 12 people and sickened thousands. The assault was one of the worst acts of urban terrorism until the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks in the United States.
Police said the simulation, which has been in the works for months, was designed to test a plan, dubbed Piratox, put in place last year for dealing with a terror attacks with chemical weapons. France also has plans for dealing with attacks with biological and nuclear weapons.
The exercise, the first of its kind in the French capital, comes less than a week after France reduced its terror alert status to the lowest level, signaling that the risk of attacks has receded. But officials and experts say France needs to remain on guard.
Last December, French authorities dismantled what they said was a terror cell with ties to Chechen rebels and al-Qaida that planned bomb or toxic gas attacks in France and Russia.
``It's about time we had one of these exercises,'' said Francois Heisbourg, director of the Foundation for Strategic Research think-tank. While France has proved itself capable of coping with natural disasters, it has not had to deal with terror attacks with mass destruction weapons.
``It's one thing to be technically well prepared ... It's another to be operating in an urban environment, in very confined spaces, having to worry about people and traffic,'' Heisbourg said in a phone interview.
Police in London staged a similar exercise on the Underground there in September, decontaminating scores of ``casualties'' from a simulated chemical weapons attack.
(jl)