Protesters in London demand the arrest of Zimbabwe's leader By IAN TALLEY
LONDON (AP)
Pro-democracy campaigners and Zimbabwean dissidents held a rally in London on Saturday, calling for fair elections in Zimbabwe and the arrest of President Robert Mugabe for crimes by his government.
The 200 demonstrators outside the Zimbabwean High Commission included 10 activists staging a 36-hour-hunger strike to protest Mugabe's regime.
The demonstration came as Commonwealth leaders met in Australia and discussed Zimbabwe's suspension from the 54-nation organization.
Mugabe's government has been accused of violating Commonwealth principles of democracy and good governance by using violence and intimidation during campaigning for the March 9-10 presidential election.
Commonwealth member states should demand Mugabe's arrest on charges of torturing and killing opponents, said Zimbabwean Alan Wilkinson, a former farmer who left the country in 1987.
Another protester, gay rights campaigner Peter Tatchell, criticized Mugabe's harsh treatment of homosexuals in Zimbabwe, and said he had affidavits from two Zimbabweans who claim they were tortured.
``These affidavits provide the basis for Mugabe to be arrested on the United Nations 1984 Convention Against Torture,'' said Tatchell. ``All the 120 countries that have ratified that are legally obliged to arrest him.''
Protesters chanted traditional peace songs and waved banners telling the world to ``wake up'' because ``Zimbabwe is dying.''
Hunger striker Patson Muzuwa accused Mugabe of being responsible for the death of his brother, Ambitious Muzuwa, as Zimbabwe's leader crushed an armed rebellion in the western Matabeleland province.
At least 20,000 people, most of them civilians, were killed after Mugabe deployed troops from his majority Shona tribe to crush rebels of the minority Ndebele ethnic group in 1982.
``I want him tried in a public court,'' Muzuwa said of Mugabe.
The hunger strikers also urged Commonwealth leaders to ban the export of luxury goods to Zimbabwe, to dispatch 1,000 monitors to report on human rights violations and to suspend the country from the organization.
While Prime Minister Tony Blair has criticized ``dictatorial'' Mugabe's campaign of violence, the British leader has agreed with African members to delay action by the Commonwealth until after Zimbabwe's ballot.