Unions hope for new protest momentum as Chirac signs contested jobs measure into law
PARIS
The French government spokesman called Sunday for "team spirit" to pull the country out of a crisis over a hotly contested youth labor law, but unions looked to a new round of protests and strikes this week to get the measure repealed.
Unions were hoping that Tuesday's nationwide protests would exceed a similar demonstration a week ago that put at least 1 million people in the streets. The Paris Metro, the national train service and others were already announcing scaled-back service.
Scores of universities and high schools have been closed or blocked by protesting students, and Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin, author of the measure, has been weakened, perhaps irreparably, in a crisis that has deepened from week to week.
President Jacques Chirac, searching for a way out, said Friday that a new, softer law would be devised with two key modifications that take opponents' concerns into account. He called for dialogue to ensure all viewpoints are heard. Previous efforts at dialogue failed.
The contested measure nevertheless went on the books Sunday with the signature of Chirac, who had said he would sign it into law because it had been passed by parliament. In a twist that apparently is a first in France he asked that the law so vigorously defended by Villepin, to his detriment, not be applied.
The law, known as the New Job Contract, was aimed at curbing sky-high youth unemployment by making it easier to hire those under 26 because they could be fired without cause in the first two years.
Chirac has asked that the current law be modified to reduce a trial period for new young hires from two years to one and, in case of a firing, to require employers to explain it.
The president's double-barreled approach, signing a law onto the books then effectively suspending it so a new law can be written, was seen as a rebuff of Villepin.
It showed that Chirac believes that Villepin's chief political rival, Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy _ who has wanted the measure suspended _ was right.
A decision announced Saturday to turn the writing of a second bill over to parliament _ removing it from the hands of the government _ was viewed as a further insult to the prime minister.
The move put Sarkozy at center-stage in pulling the country out of the crisis. The ambitious interior minister hopes to be a presidential candidate in 2007 elections for the governing Union for a Popular Movement, or UMP, which he heads.
Sarkozy immediately began contacting unions for talks, and Cope, the government spokesman tried to rally opponents.
"There are positive points that we must discuss without taboo," Cope said on the TF1 television station. "We must get together around a table to get out of this difficult period by the high road."
However, the head of the CFDT union predicted that the struggle would be long, and not lose momentum with spring vacations starting next week.
Political opponents, meanwhile, castigated Chirac's decision to put the old law on the books but replace it with another law as "surrealist," "bizarre" and "undemocratic."
Centrist leader Francois Bayrou denounced "the delegation of government power to the president of UMP," the governing party.
"We are in a full regime crisis," he said on LCI television.
Villepin, in an interview with the weekly newspaper Le Journal du Dimanche, said he did not feel disavowed by Chirac, who is thought to have wanted him as his successor in the presidency.
"There is misunderstanding and incomprehension about the direction of my action. I profoundly regret it," he told Le Journal du Dimanche. Asked if he had made mistakes, he replied, "of course, in all political action there is some error."
But, he added, "the main error, the only one that would have been unforgivable, would have been to do nothing against the mass unemployment in our country."
CFDT union chief Francois Chereque told France Inter radio Sunday that the mobilization against the law must continue.
"The object of (Tuesday's) demonstration is repealing" the law, he said. "There needs to be a lot of us, and we must go for the long haul since the parliamentary debate will take time."