Italy's general election next month to be held under tight security
ROME
Italy is in a state of high alert ahead of elections next month that will be the nation's first major vote in decades to be held under the shadow of terrorism.
A recent domestic intelligence report included Italy among "possible targets" of a Jihadist terror offensive, and said the period of greatest danger was between last month's Winter Olympics in Turin and the April 9-10 general elections.
Even the U.S. State Department took the step this week of warning Americans of "security concerns in Italy" ahead of the vote.
"The risk of terrorism is for now a theoretical one ... So far we have received no specific signals of an attack," Interior Minister Giuseppe Pisanu said when parliament was dissolved last month, clearing the way for the election. "But we keep our defenses very high."
Italian officials said Friday that the situation has not changed since then.
Italy last voted in general elections in May 2001, four months before the Sept. 11 attacks in the United States. Bombings in Spain and Britain _ which like Italy were part of the U.S.-led coalition in Iraq _ raised fears that Italy could also be targeted by Islamic terrorism.
"An election, as previous experience in other countries shows, can be appealing for terrorist groups who are not only looking for the spotlight but also for a chance to influence people's choices," said Pisanu.
In March 2004 in Madrid, Islamic militants claimed responsibility for an attack on Madrid three days ahead of the elections, which killed 191 people and injured more than 1,500. Two days after the attack, Islamic militants said they had acted on behalf of al-Qaida in revenge for then-prime minister Jose Maria Aznar's deployment of peacekeeping troops to Iraq.
Premier Silvio Berlusconi is a staunch ally of U.S. President George W. Bush, and many here fear that this pro-American stance, as well as the country's involvement in Iraq, may increase the risk of a terror attack.
Italy has received threats from reputed Islamic militants on the Internet, and Berlusconi said recently that "numerous threats" made against him were deemed credible by investigators, without giving details.
Thousands of sites in Italy, including airports, foreign embassies and government buildings, are considered "sensitive" and are kept under tight surveillance. Officials said polling stations are also considered "sensitive."
The government sent 3,000 troops to Iraq to help rebuild the country after the ouster of Saddam Hussein in 2003. It is now withdrawing the contingent, and expects the pullout to be complete by the end of the year. Prodi, who was against the war, said he favors a quick but phased pullout.
The U.S. State Department told Americans on Wednesday that Italy continues to be under heightened public threat by al-Qaida and other Islamic extremists for its continued participation in multinational activities in Iraq and Afghanistan.
That advisory grabbed the political spotlight Thursday, with Berlusconi defending the U.S. government's right to inform its citizens, and his center-left opponent Romano Prodi saying the advisory created a climate of fear.
Domestic terrorism cast its shadow on Italian elections in the 1970s and early 1980s, most notably with the Red Brigades radical leftist group. But this is the first time the country has feared an attack by Islamic terrorists during parliamentary elections.
The Italian intelligence report issued last month said "possible targets of the Jihad offensive include Italy."
The report warned that the greater danger comes from "free-lance" terrorists _ which it described as people typically raised in the West and with loose affiliation to organized militant groups _ and North Africans connected to groups inspired by al-Qaida.
Enzo Bianco, a leftist lawmaker who heads a parliamentary commission that oversees the country's secret services, said the report "highlights a worrying agitation in the activity of Islamic terrorists in Italy."
All leading Italian politicians are heavily guarded, moving around in bulletproof cars _ a legacy of the years of domestic terror. Berlusconi and Prodi have major security details, and are surrounded by plainclothes bodyguards.
Italy heightened its security levels after the July 7 bombings on three London subways and a double-decker bus killed 56 people, including the four suicide bombers, and injured hundreds.
A tight security plan surrounded the Olympics, with the deployment of 10,000 police reinforced by soldiers and AWACS surveillance planes provided by NATO. The Games went ahead without any disruptions.
Domestic anarchists and other radical groups that have been active in recent months have added to the security concerns.
In December, demonstrations against a high-speed train linking Turin to Lyon, France, turned violent in an Alpine valley. Earlier this month, hundreds of radical leftists _ who were protesting a march by neo-fascist sympathizers _ torched cars, damaged stores and clashed with police in Milan.
Berlusconi got a taste of the tensions when youths scuffled with police this week outside a theater in Genoa, in northern Italy, where he was leading an election rally. The premier accused the left of organizing protests to disrupt his election campaign.