Socialist party councilor shot dead in Spain's Basque region Eds: CORRECTS Priede was a widower, sted widow, in graf 5
SAN SEBASTIAN, Spain (AP)
Unidentified gunmen shot and killed a Socialist party councilor in Spain's northern Basque region Thursday.
No group immediately claimed responsibility for the shooting but the attack bore the hallmarks of the armed separatist group ETA. If confirmed, it would be ETA's first fatal attack this year.
Police said two gunmen shot Juan Priede Perez, 69, in the head as he ate in a bar in the small coastal town of Orio where he served as a councilor. Priede, who had received threats in the past, had just been escorted home by his bodyguards before he went to the nearby bar at 2 p.m. (1300 gmt).
The two assailants fled in a car driven by a third person who had waited outside the premises.
A widower, Priede was father to three children, police said.
ETA has killed several councilors as part of its 34-year-old campaign for Basque independence. The group has admitted to killing more than 800 people since it took up arms in 1968. It is blamed for a Mar. 2 explosion which targeted another Socialist party councilor who lost his leg in the blast.
``ETA's fanaticism will not beat us,'' said Gemma Zabaleta, a Socialist Basque Parliament member and friend of Priede. ``We have to reach agreement to isolate ETA. This man (Priede) did nothing but work for his people and for this reason they murdered him.''
The attack came a day after Priede attended a first anniversary memorial service for fellow Socialist municipal politician Froilan Elespe who was killed by ETA.
``Juan fought for freedom and defended life,'' said Basque Socialist deputy Rodolfo Ares. ``In Euskadi (the Basque region), people are killed for their ideas.''
The last fatal attack attributed to ETA was Nov. 23 when gunmen shot dead two traffic police officers in the Basque region.
The shooting in Orio, located some 400 kilometers (250 miles) north of Madrid, came hours after police in the Basque region arrested five people on charges of collaborating with ETA.
ETA, whose name is a Basque-language acronym for Basque Homeland and Freedom, called off a 14-month-old cease-fire in Dec. 1999. Since then it has claimed or been blamed for 38 deaths.
The organization is classified as a terrorist organization by both the European Union and the United States.