Amsterdam Muslim leaders present their own anti-extremism plan
AMSTERDAM, Netherlands
Muslim leaders from Amsterdam presented a plan to the Dutch Prime Minister Monday for using social pressure to prevent members of their community from becoming extremists.
Fatih Ucler Dag, chairman of the city's largest Turkish mosque, Aya Sofia, said the plan had been developed by Muslims as a response to the November murder of filmmaker Theo van Gogh by a fanatic.
The plan specifies that imams and other leading members of mosques and Islamic organizations should identify members of their congregation who begin expressing radical ideas and try to reason with them.
If that fails, they could eventually be reported to authorities, Dag said.
"It's not that we would turn somebody in to the police if he says something crazy in a moment of anger," he said in a telephone interview. "It's about repeated examples of sowing hate or encouraging violence."
An outsider to a mosque who made such remarks would attract immediate attention, Dag said. At least two other Amsterdam mosques have signed on for the plan, developed in collaboration with the city government, and others are considering it.
"I'm pleased and proud," said Prime Minister Jan Peter Balkenende after the outline of the plan was presented to him in the Hague.
Van Gogh was a prominent critic of the treatment of women under fundamentalist Islam, and his murder on Nov. 2 set off a month of retaliatory attacks on Muslim targets in a country once renowned for its peace and tolerance.
The killer, 27-year-old Mohammed Bouyeri, said he killed Van Gogh for perceived insults to Islam. He was sentenced to life in prison in July, while other alleged members of his cult-like group are awaiting trial on terrorism charges.
Most members of the group, which prosecutors call the Hofstad Network, were Dutch natives and became radicalized here.
The Dutch government vowed to crack down on Islamic radicals, hardcore environmentalists and white racists who are willing to use violence to achieve their political goals. It has also said it will expel imams who preach violence against Jews, gays and Western governments.
Immigration minister Rita Verdonk has revoked the residency permits of three imams from fundamentalist mosques, accusing them of preaching hate. All said they did nothing wrong. One left voluntarily while two others are fighting their deportation.
As part of the plan introduced Monday, the City of Amsterdam is funding an office and hotline where Muslims can report complaints of racism or discrimination against them.
"They will be greeted by Muslims or people with an Islamic background, so they know their complaints will be taken seriously," said city council member Hank van Waveren. Van Waveren represents the Baarsjes district, where immigrants and their children make up 50 percent of the population.
Van Waveren, a member of Dutch Labor, said the plan was part of a "do-it-yourself" attitude toward solving problems inspired in part by Newt Gingrich's Republican Revolution in the United States.